html Boost Your Outbound Sales with an AI BDR from Artisan Contact Sales Login Contact Sales Products Solutions Resources Pricing Enterprise Automate Your Outbound With an All-In-One, AI-First Platform Powered by AI Employees Equip your team with the best-in-class outbound tools and our AI BDR Ava, who automates your entire outbound workflow. Phone Get Started Loading... The Future is Consolidated We’re Building the Future of Software, With AI Employees Called Artisans We're not just building an outbound sales tool. We're replacing, optimizing, and automating the entire GTM stack with AI and world-class software products. We're creating a world where Artisans will work alongside humans to automate the majority of their work. Ava, The Sales Artisan Hey there 👋 I’m Ava Meet Our First Artisan, Ava, the AI BDR Meet Ava Talk to Sales She Automates Outbound Ava automates 80% of the work your outbound team are doing manually within our all-in-one platform. She Finds Leads Ava prospects for you with access to over 300M B2B leads, enriches them with demographic, firmographic, intent and technographic data and verifies their email addresses. She Sends Personalized Emails Ava individually researches each prospect before writing and sending hyper-personalized emails to each, on behalf of your reps. Loading... Loading... Before Ava After Ava Al Sales Playbooks Lead Research Email Generation Intent Data Workflow Builder AI SDR Email Warmup Features Innovation At Every Stage of the Outbound Cycle B2B Data Sales Playbooks Email Warmup 40+ Languages Email Deliverability Workflow Automation A Database of Over 300M+ B2B Contacts Unlock the full potential of your sales campaigns with our expansive B2B data. Dive into detailed company profiles, decision-maker contact information, and industry-specific insights to target your outreach more effectively. Talk To Sales Enterprise Artisan For Enterprise We're building the next generation of outbound software: all-in-one and AI-first. The days of a 15-product stack centered around Outreach or SalesLoft are over. Talk to Sales Consolidate Your Fragmented Stack We consolidate every tool your team needs for outbound with best-in-class products - from B2B Data to Email Warmup. Free Reps to Focus on High-Leverage Work Ava automates over 80% of your BDRs' outbound workflow, and does it more effectively. This frees up your reps so they focus on high-leverage activities like calling prospects and closing deals. Automate Your Best Manual Strategies We can build custom Playbooks that replicate the research & email writing workflows of your top performers, automate them with Ava, and make them available to the entire team. Ready to Supercharge Your Outbound? Our AI-first platform equips your team with best-in-class outbound tools and our AI BDR Ava, who automates your entire outbound workflow. Phone Get Started Products Artisan Sales Overview Ava, the AI Sales Agent B2B Data Sales Playbooks Email Warmup Sales Automation Resources Blog Demos Support Case Studies Changelog Soon Solutions Enterprise Midmarket Startups Lead Gen Agencies Soon Company About Us Contact Us Careers Artisan Labs Soon © 2024 Artisan AI Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service Privacy Policy $ /$

html Boost Your Outbound Sales with an AI BDR from Artisan Contact Sales Login Contact Sales Products Solutions Resources Pricing Enterprise Automate Your Outbound With an All-In-One, AI-First Platform Powered by AI Employees Equip your team with the best-in-class outbound tools and our AI BDR Ava, who automates your entire outbound workflow. Phone Get Started Loading... The Future is Consolidated We’re Building the Future of Software, With AI Employees Called Artisans We're not just building an outbound sales tool. We're replacing, optimizing, and automating the entire GTM stack with AI and world-class software products. We're creating a world where Artisans will work alongside humans to automate the majority of their work. Ava, The Sales Artisan Hey there 👋 I’m Ava Meet Our First Artisan, Ava, the AI BDR Meet Ava Talk to Sales She Automates Outbound Ava automates 80% of the work your outbound team are doing manually within our all-in-one platform. She Finds Leads Ava prospects for you with access to over 300M B2B leads, enriches them with demographic, firmographic, intent and technographic data and verifies their email addresses. She Sends Personalized Emails Ava individually researches each prospect before writing and sending hyper-personalized emails to each, on behalf of your reps. Loading... Loading... Before Ava After Ava Al Sales Playbooks Lead Research Email Generation Intent Data Workflow Builder AI SDR Email Warmup Features Innovation At Every Stage of the Outbound Cycle B2B Data Sales Playbooks Email Warmup 40+ Languages Email Deliverability Workflow Automation A Database of Over 300M+ B2B Contacts Unlock the full potential of your sales campaigns with our expansive B2B data. Dive into detailed company profiles, decision-maker contact information, and industry-specific insights to target your outreach more effectively. Talk To Sales Enterprise Artisan For Enterprise We're building the next generation of outbound software: all-in-one and AI-first. The days of a 15-product stack centered around Outreach or SalesLoft are over. Talk to Sales Consolidate Your Fragmented Stack We consolidate every tool your team needs for outbound with best-in-class products - from B2B Data to Email Warmup. Free Reps to Focus on High-Leverage Work Ava automates over 80% of your BDRs' outbound workflow, and does it more effectively. This frees up your reps so they focus on high-leverage activities like calling prospects and closing deals. Automate Your Best Manual Strategies We can build custom Playbooks that replicate the research & email writing workflows of your top performers, automate them with Ava, and make them available to the entire team. Ready to Supercharge Your Outbound? Our AI-first platform equips your team with best-in-class outbound tools and our AI BDR Ava, who automates your entire outbound workflow. Phone Get Started Products Artisan Sales Overview Ava, the AI Sales Agent B2B Data Sales Playbooks Email Warmup Sales Automation Resources Blog Demos Support Case Studies Changelog Soon Solutions Enterprise Midmarket Startups Lead Gen Agencies Soon Company About Us Contact Us Careers Artisan Labs Soon © 2024 Artisan AI Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service Privacy Policy $ /$

html Artisan | About Contact Sales Login Contact Sales Products Solutions Resources Pricing Enterprise We’re Spearheading the Next Industrial Revolution Work is changing forever. At Artisan, we're pioneering this AI Renaissance by bringing autonomous AI employees to the mainstream, starting with our AI BDR, Ava. Phone Get Started We’re Not Creating AI Agents - We’re Creating Artisans. Thousands of companies are developing faceless AI agents to automate specific tasks – we’re taking a different approach. Our Artisans act as additional team members, seamlessly integrating with your workforce, taking over tasks where they excel, and collaborating with humans when needed. Founded in 2023, Artisan's founding team consists of incredible talent from Stanford, Oxford, Meta, IBM, and more. We're a team united by the passion for completely revolutionizing the way we work. Our vision: A world where Artisans and humans work together in symbiosis. Our goal might be ambitious, but it takes a bold vision like ours to propel humanity forwards. Our team is committed to being the best at everything we do - from the products and features we release to the way we onboard and support our customers. Investors Built for the best. Backed by the best. We are fortunate to work with some of the best investors in the industry. Our backers include highly accomplished venture firms and some of the world’s most exceptional founders and product builders. Artisan Blogs Explore All Blogs Sales B2B Sales KPIs: A Guide to Growth Metrics That Matter August 2, 2024 13 minutes sales The 4 Best SaaS Sales Models to Boost Revenue August 1, 2024 13 minutes Sales What is B2B Outbound Sales? Techniques and Tools for Growth July 30, 2024 15 minutes Sales 11 Effective B2B Sales Channels to Drive Growth and Revenue July 23, 2024 15 minutes Ready to Supercharge Your Outbound? Our AI-first platform equips your team with best-in-class outbound tools and our AI BDR Ava, who automates your entire outbound workflow. Phone Get Started Products Artisan Sales Overview Ava, the AI Sales Agent B2B Data Sales Playbooks Email Warmup Sales Automation Resources Blog Demos Support Case Studies Changelog Soon Solutions Enterprise Midmarket Startups Lead Gen Agencies Soon Company About Us Contact Us Careers Artisan Labs Soon © 2024 Artisan AI Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service Privacy Policy $ /$

html Hire Ava the AI SDR | the Top Rated AI Sales Agent Contact Sales Login Contact Sales Products Solutions Resources Pricing Enterprise Hire Ava, Your AI Sales Agent Ava is more than just an AI SDR. She's the most effective AI Sales Agent on the market, automating more than 80% of the B2B outbound demand generation process for your team. Phone Get Started Features Ava Isn’t Your Average AI SDR She’s An Artisan BDR Platform Manager Sales Coach Data Analyst Ava Automates 80% of BDR & SDRs’ Work With AI Your BDRs will never have to prospect leads, enrich them, verify their contact information, research them or write outbound emails again with Ava on your team. Talk To Sales The Answers To Your Questions Contact Sales Where does Ava find leads? We work with a number of industry-leading data providers to give Ava access to the most accurate and valuable B2B data through advanced AI-powered automation. You don’t need to have your own data source - everything is built into our AI sales platform, enhancing the efficiency of your sales teams. Who does Ava send emails as? Ava impersonates you, sending emails using your email address. Leveraging generative AI, she incorporates on-brand messaging to sound like you and your salespeople, ensuring your sales teams can maintain consistency and optimize communications. Can Ava respond to emails too? This functionality is currently in beta and will roll out more widely soon! Right now, you can ask Ava to draft responses for you within the Inbox. She also leverages AI-powered automation to follow-up with leads, helping streamline your sales activities. Can Ava do outreach on LinkedIn? This feature is currently being built! Soon, Ava will help capture more of the sales cycle by automating outreach on LinkedIn and other social media platforms. This will include sending connection requests, messages, and more to boost your conversion rate and streamline your sales activities. Can Ava make phone calls? We’re currently building our Dialer so your salespeople can do cold calling and outreach through our platform! Ava will be able to listen in, take notes in real-time, and streamline your workflow with automated follow-up phone calls during your sales calls. What’s the pricing to hire Ava? Our pricing is variable based on the lead volume and customization you need. Ava leverages the power of AI to enhance lead generation, improve conversion rates, and help close deals efficiently. For a pricing consultation and to learn how Ava can contribute to your sales enablement, please reach out to our sales team. Ready to Supercharge Your Outbound? Our AI-first platform equips your team with best-in-class outbound tools and our AI BDR Ava, who automates your entire outbound workflow. Phone Get Started Products Artisan Sales Overview Ava, the AI Sales Agent B2B Data Sales Playbooks Email Warmup Sales Automation Resources Blog Demos Support Case Studies Changelog Soon Solutions Enterprise Midmarket Startups Lead Gen Agencies Soon Company About Us Contact Us Careers Artisan Labs Soon © 2024 Artisan AI Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service Privacy Policy $ /$

html Artisan Blog - B2B Prospecting and Cold Outreach Content Contact Sales Login Contact Sales Products Solutions Resources Pricing Enterprise Loading... Ready to Supercharge Your Outbound? Our AI-first platform equips your team with best-in-class outbound tools and our AI BDR Ava, who automates your entire outbound workflow. Phone Get Started Products Artisan Sales Overview Ava, the AI Sales Agent B2B Data Sales Playbooks Email Warmup Sales Automation Resources Blog Demos Support Case Studies Changelog Soon Solutions Enterprise Midmarket Startups Lead Gen Agencies Soon Company About Us Contact Us Careers Artisan Labs Soon © 2024 Artisan AI Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service Privacy Policy $ /$

html What is B2B Outbound Sales? Techniques and Tools for Growth Contact Sales Login Contact Sales Products Solutions Resources Pricing Enterprise Sales What is B2B Outbound Sales? Techniques and Tools for Growth Updated On: July 31, 2024 15 minutes read Love them or hate them, B2B outbound sales strategies are fundamental for thriving B2B companies—and for a good reason. The B2B buyer journey is often a long, multi-touch process requiring buy-in from multiple stakeholders. While inbound sales techniques allow B2B companies to attract potential buyers, inbound strategies alone can't take prospects from the beginning to the end of a complex sales journey—you need outbound to make that happen. However, complex sales cycles aren't the only reason B2B companies use outbound. It's also what the buyers want. Recent research shows that 71% of buyers actually want salespeople to reach out when they're looking for solutions. B2B outbound sales enable companies to quickly target high-value prospects and key decision-makers and foster those connections until the deal is closed. Unfortunately, in the age of call screening, spam filters, and social media blocking, getting a hold of your prospects isn't easy. It's also time-consuming and resource-draining. No wonder 52% of outbound marketers say their current efforts are ineffective. In this guide, we'll examine some common outbound sales channels and the benefits of using outbound techniques. We'll also share some strategies to help you level up your B2B outbound sales strategies. What is Outbound Sales? So, what is outbound sales, and how do it differ from inbound sales? Outbound sales is a proactive sales approach where salespeople identify leads and initiate contact via email, cold calling, or direct messages. Outbound sales are all about finding and converting leads quickly – which is super valuable since, according to HubSpot, 74% of companies say converting leads in their CRM into paying customers is their top priority. Inbound sales take a more passive approach. Despite its name, inbound sales is more of a marketing function focusing on attracting prospects via social media, content marketing, and search engine optimization. It encourages those prospects to engage with the company when they're ready. If the differences are still a bit blurry, here are some key differences between the two: Who makes the first move – In outbound sales, the sales rep makes the first move, but in inbound sales, the prospects tend to reach out first. Time to results – Outbound sales are excellent for quick results, whereas inbound sales are best for gradual growth. Prospect targeting – B2B outbound sales are all about precisely targeting particular market segments, while inbound sales involve more broad targeting methods. Primary tactics – Outbound sales tactics include cold emailing, cold calling, DMs, direct mail, and networking. Inbound sales tactics include social media posts, SEO, blogs, eBooks, and webinars. The costs – Inbound sales usually cost more to get started but less to keep going than outbound sales. That's because outbound sales traditionally cost more due to the high price of talent and tools (though this is changing with the arrival of AI BDRs, like Ava .) So, which is better for your organization? Neither—they're both essential functions for healthy B2B companies. Inbound sales build a strong pipeline of engaged prospects, while outbound sales ensure you don't miss any opportunities by targeting high-value accounts that can drive significant growth. By integrating both, you maximize your chances of converting and hitting your KPIs. 4 Common B2B Outbound Sales Channels for Lead Generation B2B outbound sales are all about generating leads to pitch and close. Here are some of the most common B2B sales channels . Cold Calling Cold calling involves calling prospects who haven't expressed prior interest in your products or services. While many sales reps overlook making sales calls, they shouldn't because, according to recent data, 57% of C-Level and VP-Level buyers prefer to connect on the phone. How to be successful : Success in cold calling depends on preparation, understanding the prospect's needs, and delivering a compelling value proposition. Generally, having a sales script and a clear goal for each call is important. For example, the goal of the first call may be pre-qualifying the prospect, understanding their key pain points, and taking notes about them in your CRM so that you're better prepared to close on the second or third call. Cold Emails Cold emails are unsolicited emails sent to potential leads to introduce your business. Generally, cold emails are sent in sequences—or multiple emails sent at specific, pre-determined intervals. However, they can also be one-off messages sent with the goal of initiating contact. How to be successful : Effective cold emails are personalized, concise, and offer clear value. They should have a strong subject line since 69% of email recipients send emails to spam based only on their headline! They should also have a tailored message and a clear call to action. Automation tools can help manage and scale these campaigns. Want to automate your outbound? With our AI BDR Ava , you can launch your campaign to targeted prospects in minutes and avoid spam filters with mailbox health monitoring, placement tests, email warmup, and more. Social Selling Social selling is an approach that utilizes social media platforms to connect with and nurture potential leads. LinkedIn is particularly powerful for B2B social selling, enabling connections with decision-makers and industry leaders. How to be successful : Every niche and platform has its own eccentricities, but, in general, sales professionals can build relationships with potential clients by sharing valuable content, engaging in conversations, and demonstrating expertise. Influencer marketing and partnerships may also be beneficial. Networking Events & Webinars Networking events, like industry conferences, trade shows, and local meetups, are excellent opportunities to meet potential customers face-to-face, build relationships, and gather insights. Webinars allow you to reach a broad online audience, highlight your expertise, and establish thought leadership to a broad audience. How to be successful : Preparation is key for in-person events. Reach out to prospects before events to schedule a time to chat. Bring your business cards, but more importantly, be ready to network. Remember to show genuine interest and try to connect with people. In other words, don't go straight for the pitch. Instead, focus on connecting and making positive impressions with potential clients. If you're hosting a webinar, be sure to provide value to the attendees. If prospects feel like they were reeled into a webinar just to become a lead in your sales funnel, it'll leave a bad taste in their mouths. Think of it as an introduction to who your company is, and do your best to make sure it's a good first impression. If you're attending a webinar, come with questions to ask and be a vocal and active contributor. It's much harder to connect and make an impression with online events, so plan how to make your mark. B2B Outbound Sales Benefits What makes B2B outbound sales particularly powerful? Here are some of the key benefits Target the Right Audience Outbound sales let you directly target your ideal audience. Instead of waiting for prospects to find you, you can reach out to those who fit your customer profile. Whether you buy leads, use a database, or scrape the web for prospects – with outbound sales, you can laser-focus on the types of companies that are the right fit for your offer. This focused approach boosts the chances of conversion because you're actually targeting the right prospects. More importantly, though, it maximizes the sales teams' efforts. Outbound sales enable companies to zero in on their target audience, saving time and energy while boosting results. Personalized Outreach Outbound sales enable personalized outreach and allow you to tailor your message to your prospect's specific needs – and there are few things more powerful than a highly targeted message. Research has shown that companies that excel at personalization have 40% more revenue than their competitors who don't. Additionally, personalized messages have been proven to have a greater response rate than messages that don’t. Artisan's AI BDR Ava scrapes the web and social media to find insights to craft highly personalized emails. Try Ava Now. Shorten Sales Cycle Outbound sales can accelerate the sales cycle. By initiating contact, you can move prospects through the sales funnel faster. You aren't waiting for them to make the first move (or take the next one). With outbound sales, you can address objections, provide information, and guide prospects toward a purchase more efficiently than trying to drive them through the process with inbound techniques alone. Boost Inbound Marketing Inbound and outbound sales shouldn't be competing with one another. Instead, they should work in tandem, helping move prospects through the buyer journey. While it's easy to see how inbound leads and strategies like content marketing and SEO can help outbound, it's not always as easy to see how outbound can also help inbound teams. However, direct interactions with prospects provide valuable insights that can improve your content and strategies. Outbound efforts also drive traffic to your inbound channels, which increases overall engagement and visibility. 6 Strategies for Successful B2B Outbound Sales While every company's B2B outbound sales strategy will vary based on its specific team, goals, and needs, every successful strategy includes six basic steps. 1. B2B Outbound Prospecting Prospecting is simply the process of finding and engaging with potential customers. However, when doing B2B outbound sales, you obviously can't just pick up the phone book and start dialing random numbers. Instead, you have to get really good at sales prospecting, which starts by identifying your ideal customer profile (ICP). An ICP is a detailed description of the type of customer that would benefit the most from your product or service. To identify your ICP, you can start by analyzing your current customers and identifying common characteristics among your best customers, considering factors like: Industry : Which sectors do your best customers belong to? Company Size : What is the employee count or revenue range of your ideal customers? Location : Are your best customers concentrated in specific geographical areas? Challenges : What common problems or pain points do your best customers face that your solution addresses? Creating a well-defined ICP helps you focus your outbound sales efforts on prospects most likely to convert and makes it much easier to build a prospect list. Once you know who your ICP is, you can use web scraping tools, lead databases, or tools like LinkedIn Sales Navigator or the AI BDR, Ava , to build a prospect list. Of course, not every prospect you find will be a perfect match. So, take some time to read and evaluate each prospect to ensure they're a good fit for your product or service before pouring tons of resources into reaching out. 2. Outreach Qualified Leads Once you've got a strong list of potential customers, it's time to start the outreach process, and spoiler alert: generic messages won't cut it . To optimize your conversion rates, you need to personalize your outreach to address each person's specific needs and challenges. To personalize, you'll have to do some basic research on the prospect's business to uncover contact information and other details like: The company's industry The prospect's name The company name Recent accolades The pain points the company is experiencing Then, you'll want to highlight all these things in your outreach. It's also important to choose the right channel for reaching out since different channels can be more effective for certain industries and instances. For example, if your ICP is a technology startup, you might focus on LinkedIn since 82% of B2B marketers agree it's the best channel for B2B lead generation. When planning your outreach strategy for your outbound sales team, you also need to develop a strategy for bypassing gatekeepers. Gatekeepers are the receptionists or assistants who often screen communications for decision-makers. Things like building rapport with the gatekeeper and using multiple channels (email, social media, calls) can maximize your chances of getting through. Ava is an AI BDR who automates 80% of the outbound sales process and can be set up with a 10-minute conversation. Ava creates the user's ICP, prospects with her database of over 270M contacts, does lead research, and crafts & sends highly bespoke email sequences. Want to give her a spin ? 3. Qualification and Needs Assessment Once you've engaged a prospect, the next step is to schedule a meeting to qualify the prospect and learn more about them. For this first call, be upfront about what prospects should expect by establishing a clear agenda ahead of time. This can go a long way towards establishing your expertise and building trust. Your primary goal should be to find the specific challenges and pain points the prospect is facing so you can ensure they're the right fit and better tailor a sales pitch for their unique needs and goals. During the discovery call: Ask open-ended questions to encourage the prospect to elaborate on their issues and actively listen to their answers. Take notes and ask follow-up questions to gain deeper insights. Try to uncover as much about the decision-making process early on as possible. Gently probe for budget information to ensure your solution aligns with their financial capabilities. Ask questions like: "What kind of budget do you have allocated for this project?" to get a sense of their financial constraints. Identify the key decision-makers within the organization. This can be done by asking, "Who else should be involved in this conversation?" or "Who will be making the final decision?" Keep in mind you shouldn't try to close them during this call. On average, it takes 18 calls to connect with a potential buyer and five additional follow-up calls to actually close the deal. Taking the time to thoroughly qualify prospects and conducting a detailed needs assessment enables you to focus your efforts on leads with the largest potential to convert, saving time and resources while setting the stage for a successful sales engagement. 4. Value Proposition and Presentation It may take several calls with several different stakeholders to get to this point, but once you get the opportunity to do a formal pitch – it's important to be prepared. Start by preparing a personalized presentation highlighting how your product or service addresses the specific challenges and pain points discussed during the discovery call. For the best results: Use success stories and social proof , such as case studies and testimonials, to demonstrate the tangible benefits and results your solution has provided to similar companies. Try to handle objections confidently and effectively . Be prepared to address common concerns and questions and provide clear, concise responses that reinforce the value of your offering. Listen and respond to objections . Like in the discovery call, it's important to listen to the prospect's objections, understand their underlying concerns, and tailor your responses to alleviate those worries. Use visuals , like slides, infographics, and videos, to make your points more compelling and easier to understand. Encourage questions and discussions throughout the presentation to keep the prospect interested and to address any issues in real-time. By personalizing your pitch and confidently handling objections, you can ensure your presentation resonates with your prospects and moves them closer to a purchasing decision. 5. Negotiation and Closing the Deal This is the stage in the B2B outbound sales process where your sales skills really come into play. There's usually a bit of persuasion, negotiation, and lots of persistence. It's best to strive for win-win negotiations where both parties feel like they're gaining value. Make sure you clearly communicate the benefits of your solution and be prepared to discuss pricing, terms, and any potential adjustments. It's important to be flexible during this phase, but it's equally important to stand firm on the value your product or service provides. Be sure to outline clear next steps to keep the momentum going. Your prospects should always know how to move forward with the deal. After reaching an agreement, it may seem like your job is done, but consistent follow-up is crucial at this phase. It's not uncommon for deals to die in the pipeline – even after the prospect has agreed to move forward. Regularly check in to address any lingering concerns and keep the prospect engaged. Use follow-up calls, emails, or meetings to reinforce the benefits of your solution and keep the deal moving forward. 6. Building Relationships and Account Management After closing the deal, the focus shifts to building a strong, long-term relationship with the client, which starts with a smooth onboarding experience. Once your client has signed the dotted line, be sure to guide them through the initial steps of using your product or service and point them to any other people they need to be aware of (i. e., account managers, customer support staff, etc.) This stage may be more of an account manager or customer success function. Regardless, someone in your company needs to: Schedule periodic check-ins to discuss the client's progress, address any issues, and gather feedback. Identify opportunities to upsell or cross-sell additional products or services that can provide further value to the client. Quickly resolve issues and be responsive to their questions to strengthen their loyalty and ensure a positive experience. Happy clients are more likely to become repeat customers and refer your business to others. Who doesn't want that? Optimize Your B2B Outbound Sales Strategy With AI Outbound sales is an important function for almost every thriving B2B organization. It's an effective strategy for reaching prospects, getting quick results, and growing your organization. However, it's not a walk in the park. Being good at B2B outbound sales requires you to be skilled at things like overcoming rejection, identifying the right decision-makers, crafting compelling pitches, and more. It's a lot to balance. However, AI SDRs can address many of these challenges and streamline the pain points of outbound sales tremendously. For example, Ava, Artisan's AI SDR , can automate 80% of the sales process. In just 10 minutes, she learns about your ICP and product, creates an outbound campaign, selects leads from her database and starts prospecting. She can send personalized sales outreach, write emails, optimize deliverability, and more, totally revolutionizing the outbound sales process of the past. With AI SDRs like Ava, companies can offload the time-consuming parts of sales, so human SDRs can focus more on making connections and closing deals. Want to learn more about how AI SDRs can increase your outbound sales results? Hire Ava and see how easy B2B outbound sales can be with the right tools. Share Article You might also like Ready to Supercharge Your Outbound? Our AI-first platform equips your team with best-in-class outbound tools and our AI BDR Ava, who automates your entire outbound workflow. Phone Get Started Products Artisan Sales Overview Ava, the AI Sales Agent B2B Data Sales Playbooks Email Warmup Sales Automation Resources Blog Demos Support Case Studies Changelog Soon Solutions Enterprise Midmarket Startups Lead Gen Agencies Soon Company About Us Contact Us Careers Artisan Labs Soon © 2024 Artisan AI Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service Privacy Policy $ /$

html The 4 Best SaaS Sales Models to Boost Revenue Contact Sales Login Contact Sales Products Solutions Resources Pricing Enterprise sales The 4 Best SaaS Sales Models to Boost Revenue Updated On: August 4, 2024 13 minutes read When it comes to software, it seems like we’re all moving to SaaS. Dealroom reports that 47% of all venture capital in 2023 was invested in SaaS platforms. This is because SaaS outsources traditional software's limitations (updating, installation, integration), making adoption more manageable, flexible, and cost-effective. However, your sales team might need help mapping a new sales process tied to subscription-based software–help outlining a unique value proposition, tracking metrics, or looking for ways to upsell an existing customer base. This article discusses the four best sales models for B2B SaaS products and how they can help you pivot your sales know-how into one of the biggest markets in tech. How Is SaaS Sales Different From Traditional Sales Models? Businesses love SaaS tools because they are easy. Do you want to stay flexible? Cloud tools can help. Want to get an entire team onboarded quickly? SaaS solutions make it easy. Need to get away from downloadables, updates, and patches? SaaS is the way. These reasons are probably why 99% of companies will use at least one SaaS solution by the end of 2024 . How does SaaS make all of this possible? They are a move to subscription-based purchases rather than one-time purchases. Rather than licensing and downloads, SaaS solutions rely on monthly or annual payments, providing more opportunities to upgrade or upsell paying customers. SaaS deployment provides always-on web services via a web browser . This makes software much more accessible (everyone has a web browser) and minimizes the need for users to update or upgrade software constantly. SaaS includes a maintenance model that outsources critical functions like updates, upgrades, or security and compliance issues to the software provider . And when the technology changes, sales will follow. Instead of focusing on a one-time transactional sales model, your sales team will look at a shorter sales cycle and a revenue model reflecting earnings over time rather than at the point of sale. Additionally, new features can translate into new subscription tiers, providing sales teams plenty of opportunities to upsell existing customers. B2B vs. B2C SaaS Sales B2B SaaS sales will focus on account-based relationships. Instead of seeking mass licenses from a wide range of customers, you’ll look to sell ongoing packages of services and software that fulfill daily enterprise needs. It’s not just about enterprise users, however. Many small- and mid-sized businesses (SMBs) need comprehensive packages with the flexibility to adjust pricing tiers and features monthly or annually. The SaaS Sales Process There are hundreds of SaaS solutions available for both general consumers and business customers… This market grew to the tune of $101.47B in 2023 and is expected to top $400B in the next decade . That means that there is plenty of room to stake your claim with the right features. The B2B SaaS sales process is similar to a traditional sales pipeline, albeit considering the unique contours of a SaaS product. Stage 1: Lead Generation Lead generation (or lead gen) is critical to the B2B SaaS sales process and extends across several contexts and situations. The full scope of lead gen can include: Inbound marketing, covering targeted SaaS marketing, SEO content development, webinars, and other indirect approaches that raise your product or brand profile. Outbound prospecting usually includes email campaigns, social media outreach, and participation in SaaS industry events to connect with potential customers and nurture them through a CRM or Artisan's AI SDR Ava . In either case, lead generation efforts should align with your existing Ideal Customer Profile (ICP), which should model new customers and those likely to stay with a product for a long-term commitment. Stage 2: Lead Qualification Lead qualification is a foundational part of any sales pipeline. Potential leads should be scored and ranked based on their alignment with your ICP and organizational goals, with metrics including behavioral traits, financial or professional situations, or demographics. One criteria to use in qualifying leads is the Budget, Authority, Need, and Timeline (BANT) approach: Budget : What is the customer’s budget for a SaaS solution? Is it readily available, and are there any financial constraints? Authority : Are you engaging with someone who can make purchasing decisions? Are there one or multiple stakeholders in the decision-making process? Need : What needs does your SaaS solution meet for the customer, and how critical is adoption in terms of time or costs? Timeline : When will the customer be ready to make a purchase? How long do they have for implementation? Stage 3: Product Demonstration Product demos are among the most valuable and practical sales tools available. The SaaStr community reports that the average conversion rate for a product demo is up to 20%—not too bad for a single asset. However, not all product demos are created equal. A generic demo can bounce a potential lead faster than anything else. Make sure to customize demos to speak directly to important features to customers (or customer segments). Think interactivity and hands-on demonstrations that show rather than tell. Answer questions about how your product: Simplifies or streamlines everyday tasks for the customer. Increases productivity through automation or customization. Reduces costs by providing better functionality than their existing solution at a lower price point. Eases use through onboarding and white-glove support. Often, a demo can include a free or “freemium” version of your SaaS solution that a lead can use on their own time and terms. Stage 4: Proposal and Negotiation While submitting a proposal might seem like the final step of the sales process, it is better to see this as the first step in negotiations. Any reasonable proposal should include some standard information, including: An outline of the terms of the relationship and the features and capabilities you are delivering to solve specific problems. Deliverables like access to the product, any white-glove customer support services, credits, and so on. A timeline for these deliverables , including immediate next steps. Pricing, payment terms, and deadlines. Case studies and testimonials that demonstrate costs, ROI, etc. Once the proposal has been submitted, internal stakeholders will likely have questions about the SaaS solution, such as prices, availability, usefulness, etc. These buyers are making a long-term commitment, and you should be ready and patient with these questions. Stage 5: Closing Deals The proposal has been submitted, questions answered, and now both parties have reached what seems like a deal–if you can close it. You want to “seal the deal” with an agreement at this stage. Everything, including contracts or paperwork, should be worked out. Many modern companies use digital solutions like DocuSign or Dropbox to allow customers to sign documents automatically. Free or freemium access to your software can create real urgency for your lead to close. If they like it, losing access (or even having limited access) can light a fire under them to close the deal and get their team on the platform. Stage 6: Onboarding and Implementation Finally, once the customer is signed on, provide ongoing support. This should include: Training resources and an easily accessible knowledge base. On-call support from your customer service staff. A dedicated contact point for your customers to ensure they can get problems addressed quickly. IT support to help customers adopt the solution or integrate it with their existing tech stack. 4 Popular B2B SaaS Sales Models for SaaS Companies Some of the steps previously covered in the sales process are true for both SaaS and traditional tech companies. However, several models you can build into a more extensive sales pipeline can bring you significant success in your target market. Self-Serve Model This approach allows potential customers to sign up for your SaaS product without directly interacting with your sales team. On the surface, giving them a way to avoid the sales team seems like a bad idea, but it reduces the friction leads might feel when they wish to learn about a product. This can make trying and purchasing easy–just provide that, and it will lead to some easy-to-understand pricing models and let them create their accounts. This approach typically includes a freemium model, with a free-to-use tier with limited functionality leading into higher Premium, Business, or Enterprise tiers. Examples : Dropbox, Slack Freemium Model with Upsell A version of the self-service model, offering a freemium with an upsell, allows users to interact with the product but adds urgency to the upsell. This urgency can come from a time-limited access window to limited feature sets. The upsell will often come from the time or need urgency (sign up for full access) and can include email nurture campaigns and in-app alerts. Examples : Zoom, Mailchimp, LinkedIn Usage-Based Model Some cloud tools track resources with a metered approach. Users can take advantage of some or all of a SaaS solution’s features and pay as they use bandwidth or storage. This can be a great sales incentive for organizations that want to use or build SaaS tools in a cloud infrastructure environment. Examples : Amazon Web Services (AWS), Digital Ocean Enterprise Sales Model We’ve previously given examples of relatively simple SaaS products. The model gets slightly more complex regarding more advanced enterprise SaaS platforms with dozens or hundreds of features. The enterprise model focuses on selling large-scale cloud solutions that involve several layers of proposals, approvals, and customer touchpoints. This model calls for account representatives with a deep knowledge of their target industry. It may involve several sales process stages, including additional presentations, demonstrations, sample projects, and negotiations. Examples : Workday, SAP, Salesforce B2B SaaS Sales Strategy for Success A B2B sales strategy will depend on how your sales team articulates the value of your SaaS product to decision-makers throughout the process. Craft a Compelling Value Proposition Understanding and articulating your value proposition is the key to any successful sales approach. The value proposition tells the customer what you can give them and how it can solve their specific problems. A good value proposition should include a list of key features and an apparent narrative explaining how those features benefit the customer. Additionally, your Unique Selling Points (USPs) are just as important as the value proposition. These are how you differentiate your SaaS product from competitors and provide proof of success. For example, you might provide customers with a comparison table highlighting key features against competitors or use customer stories to show leads that the product fits specific niches and use cases. Finally, use automated personalized outreach via AI SDRs like Ava to bring data to your messaging and help you craft a compelling value proposition. Artisan's AI SDR Ava automates your outbound lead generation, bringing hot leads to your inbox on autopilot. Try Ava now . Demonstrate Value Throughout the SaaS Sales Cycle The sales cycle should include a consistent and ongoing reaffirmation of your product's value. This affirmation should include a broad set of examples of how your product addresses specific needs and pain points. Some common ways to accomplish this include: Demos . Targeted, strategic demonstrations of product features can be critical throughout the process. By both providing generalized demonstrations and setting up feature- and industry-specific demos, you can ensure that any stakeholder who needs a reminder of your value has the chance to get one. Case Studies . Case studies provide critical narratives about your product to your potential leads. These studies show buyers can trust your SaaS solution to fit their needs. Create downloadable PDFs and include them on your website and as part of any email nurture campaigns. Customer Stories . Customer stories are often less formal than case studies but can provide key social proof that your product solves real problems in real-life situations. Downloadable one-sheet stories can be an easy way to distribute these materials, and video testimonials can add that critical human touch. Free Trials . Offering a free trial or freemium version of your product lets customers see the value of your product themselves. It also gives your salespeople a “hands-free” way to engage while they focus on follow-ups or upselling. The Proposal. The proposal gives you space to demonstrate value through some of the techniques we’ve discussed. By including testimonials, customer stories, and use cases alongside demos, you can provide a package that keeps the value of your product front and center, even in the later stages of the sales pipeline. Track and Analyze Key Metrics for SaaS Business So, how do you measure success? With traditional software, this poses a more straightforward challenge to sales and revenue. However, with B2B SaaS solutions, these metrics are slightly different. Conversion rates of leads to customers . It seems obvious enough, but you must understand how many leads are coming through the pipeline. It also helps to understand the sales cycle length and how long it takes to move a lead from first contact to closing the sale. Monthly Recurring Revenue (MRR) and Annual Recurring Revenue (ARR) measure how sales translate to ongoing subscription revenue. Customer acquisition costs (CAC) related to sales efforts can tell you the price tag for each customer exactly. This, in turn, can help you better understand how to optimize costs and measure success as acquisition costs against potential monthly revenue. A high churn rate can be a major revenue problem. Churn and customer retention rates are critical for sales professionals in B2B SaaS because they are responsible for maintaining their customer base and, ideally, upselling them into higher subscription tiers. Combining user revenue with the average customer lifetime allows you to calculate the Customer Lifetime Value (CLV), which helps with long-term projections regarding your company’s value. How AI Can Optimize Your B2B SaaS Sales AI is changing the name of the game in most industries, and B2B SaaS sales aren’t any different. New intelligent automation and creative, generative AI are shaping how and with what quality salespeople can engage with leads throughout their pipeline. These impacts include: Task automation is based on where a lead is in their journey, any actions they’ve taken, or demographic information. More effective lead generation and qualification leveraging AI-driven insights. Creative input on messaging, email nurturing, and personalized engagement with generative AI. AI integration in SaaS sales goes beyond automation. It's reshaping lead scoring, personalizing outreach, and predicting customer behavior. AI SDRs like Ava can analyze engagement patterns, suggest optimal messaging, and even conduct initial conversations. This allows sales teams to focus on high-value interactions and complex deal-closing activities. The future of B2B SaaS sales lies in adaptability. As markets evolve, successful teams will blend traditional sales skills with data-driven insights and AI-powered tools. They'll need to stay agile, continuously refine their strategies, and focus on delivering measurable value to customers. By embracing these changes, SaaS companies can build more efficient, effective sales processes that drive sustainable growth in an increasingly competitive landscape. Streamline your B2B SaaS pipeline with an AI BDR, that automates your outbound lead generation. Learn what Ava can do. Share Article You might also like Ready to Supercharge Your Outbound? Our AI-first platform equips your team with best-in-class outbound tools and our AI BDR Ava, who automates your entire outbound workflow. Phone Get Started Products Artisan Sales Overview Ava, the AI Sales Agent B2B Data Sales Playbooks Email Warmup Sales Automation Resources Blog Demos Support Case Studies Changelog Soon Solutions Enterprise Midmarket Startups Lead Gen Agencies Soon Company About Us Contact Us Careers Artisan Labs Soon © 2024 Artisan AI Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service Privacy Policy $ /$

html 11 Effective B2B Sales Channels to Drive Growth and Revenue Contact Sales Login Contact Sales Products Solutions Resources Pricing Enterprise Sales 11 Effective B2B Sales Channels to Drive Growth and Revenue Updated On: July 29, 2024 15 minutes read Gone are the days when brands tried to build their presence all over the place, jumping on every opportunity to boost awareness and attract leads. Today, less is more. Successful founders and leaders know this mantra well and strive to instill it in their teams. However, what should be a freeing feeling of narrowing your focus often adds an extra challenge for sales teams: Which channels should you focus on? With so many options for online and offline sales channels, it’s overwhelming to decide where to invest your time and resources. To help you make this decision, we’ve reviewed eleven channels that have the highest potential for B2B sales teams. The Importance of Choosing the Right B2B Sales Channels Cold outreach or digital advertising? Conferences or email marketing? Choosing the right sales channels isn’t just about maximizing ROI; it may actually define your company’s long-term success. Here’s how. Building Awareness With the Right Audience The buyer’s journey is never linear, especially in B2B. Often, the sales process begins long before a customer responds to your first sales email. It starts when they first discover your company and remember the information. This could be through a cold outreach message they never replied to, a social media ad, or your speech at an industry conference. If the channel is right and puts you in front of the right audience, it will boost your sales performance in the long term. Efficient Lead Generation and Sales Growth Choosing the right sales channels will inevitably help you grow faster and scale more easily. You won’t have to spend hours convincing irrelevant leads that your solution is right for them (when it’s not) . Say, you might drive tons of leads with a social media ad offering freemium access to your enterprise-level solution. Thousands in ad spend and hundreds of sales team hours—only to get a handful of prospects that convert into paying customers. But if you focused your resources on outbound sales, you could generate fewer but more qualified leads and achieve higher conversion rates. Personalized Interactions With Potential Customers Your sales channels should help you build rapport with your prospects. Some channels, such as social selling or cold outreach, provide a direct means to interact with customers. Others, like webinars and blogs, offer a platform to foster a sense of connection with your audience. Whichever you choose, these platforms are where you can build trust with potential customers and make an impression before diving into sales calls. Better Understanding of Your Target Audience You may not discover the right sales channel on your first attempt. However, you will gain a deeper understanding of your ideal customers. Each channel allows you to gather insights about your target audience: their preferences, online behavior, and what influences their decisions. Plus, many channels provide useful data and analytics, giving you deeper insights into their behaviors. With this data, you can identify what works best and optimize not only sales but your entire business strategy for maximum impact. 11 Effective B2B Sales Channels You Should Explore So yes, choosing the right B2B sales channel goes beyond reaching your sales KPIs. It's your chance to build an engine that connects your brand with the right audience and fosters long-term relationships for the future. With that in mind, let’s walk you through the top channels you should consider for your sales strategy. 1. Direct Sales and Cold Outreach What if, instead of spending your budget on a scattershot approach (sorry, inbound sales) , you invested it in reaching your exact audience? This “channel” has been here for ages. Ever since early humans started to exchange food for other valuable resources, humanity has been hooked on direct sales. The approach has remained largely unchanged until AI revolutionized it . Not long ago, an SDR had to spend hours identifying and prioritizing potential customers, carefully crafting and sending outreach messages. Today, things are different. Outbound sales, a. k. a. direct sales, is no longer the most resource-intensive task for your sales team. AI-powered outbound sales software has made this channel more accessible to everyone—you don’t need a large SDR team to make it work anymore. How does it work? AI SDRs take over the lead research and cold outreach processes, handing over qualified leads to your pipeline. All you need is a strong understanding of customer personas—AI SDRs will do the rest. For instance, Artisan’s SDR Ava learns about your ideal customer profile (ICP), searches her database of over 300 million contacts in over 200 countries, and creates an outreach campaign to reach the top-matching prospects with highly personalized messages. The result? Ava automates 80% of the outbound sales process. She allows you to build a scalable direct selling machine on autopilot—all without increasing overhead. Try Ava today . Our verdict is that direct selling and cold outreach are a must-have channel for B2B businesses. Whether you combine it with inbound sales techniques or not, it should be the core of your sales strategy. 2. Social Sales on LinkedIn LinkedIn is a powerhouse for B2B social selling. As this channel doesn’t need long introductions, let’s dive into how you can effectively integrate it into your sales strategy. There are many ways to sell on LinkedIn, both outbound and inbound. They include: Manual lead generation: identifying leads based on criteria like job title, company size, and industry, then initiating contact through personalized messages on the platform. LinkedIn Sales Navigator: using LinkedIn’s premium tool to access advanced audience filters and automate lead tracking. Brand building: developing a strong personal or company brand on LinkedIn through strategic marketing efforts to build trust with potential customers and attract inbound leads. AI-powered automation: employing automation tools like Artisan or Apollo to discover and export qualified leads from LinkedIn and start cold outreach via email. But before jumping in, ensure your audience is active on LinkedIn. While it's particularly popular in the tech sphere, other industries are often less represented on the platform. 3. Conferences and Networking Events Direct selling allows you to connect with your prospects face-to-face, and so do offline events. Attending trade shows and industry conferences, whether as a speaker, exhibitor, or attendee, is a great strategy for promoting your brand and starting to sell your products or services with minimal investment. Here’s how you can find relevant events in your niche and turn them into your sales channel: Follow top voices in your industry on social media platforms (LinkedIn is a good place to start). Check their feeds for the past year to see where they have been speaking—these events are likely to recur soon. Focus on small-scale events. However enticing a major conference like Web Summit might sound, you’ll find more success at niche meetups. Sign up as an attendee first. You’ll have the opportunity to connect with other participants and discuss business directly, without the pressure of preparing and delivering a speech. Research other attendees. If the event page displays who’ll be present at the event (also common on LinkedIn), look into the attendees’ profiles to identify your potential buyers in advance. Prepare an elevator pitch. Be ready to present the most important information about your business in about 30 seconds when people ask what you do. Have the helpful resources at hand. Ensure you have easy access to all the links or contact information you might need to share. And remember that, unlike typical outbound sales, promoting your company at networking events requires a more subtle approach. Avoid greeting people with a direct sales pitch. Note: This approach makes sense if you sell high-ticket products or services. If you sell basic subscription-based software, applying as a speaker will bring you much more exposure and potential leads. 4 . Webinars and Online Industry Events Seventy-seven percent of surveyed marketers say virtual events have a more positive impact on lead generation than in-person events. Of course, this is only true when you run your own event or join one as a co-host or sponsor. If you aim to generate qualified leads at scale, webinars and podcasts are the way to go. Here are a few tips to plan a virtual event as a lead capture initiative: Understand who you want to reach. Be specific. Develop an agenda that is both relevant to your target market and aligned with your value proposition. Select a reliable platform that supports interactive features like Q&A, polls, and chat to engage your audience. Build a landing page with a lead capture form. Use email marketing, social media, and your website to spread the word and encourage registrations. That being said, webinars as a demand and lead generation tool don’t work for everyone. If you lack the resources to develop high-quality content, engage subject matter experts, and run a promotional campaign, it will simply become another hyped-up channel in your arsenal that fails to deliver the desired results. 5 . SEO and Content Marketing Known as digital marketing tactics in the first place, search engine optimization (SEO) and content marketing are also the primary channels to drive inbound leads. Ninety-six percent of consumers research their options before talking to a sales rep. So, having a website should be a no-brainer for every business. However, there's a catch. Here's the thing: just having a website and sprinkling it with keywords won't cut it. To get your website noticed in a competitive field, it takes months or even years of continuous effort to create, optimize, measure, and so on. So, before you invest your time and money into growing your company website, ask yourself: How competitive is your industry? Use an SEO tool to check the difficulty of your target keywords. If it's above 50%, you're in a tough crowd. Do you have the resources to hire an SEO expert or manage a team? Are your competitors showing up in search results? If they're not, why not? If your industry is highly competitive and you're ready to commit to the long haul, investing in SEO can pay off big time. In a less competitive niche, spending a few hours optimizing your site with relevant keywords and content can get you on the first page of search results within weeks. If it ends up driving qualified leads, you've successfully identified a valuable sales channel for your business. If not, there's no harm done. 6 . Email Marketing Email marketing is the most implemented marketing tactic and is also a highly effective sales channel. Think of it as a consent-based form of cold outreach. Instead of cold-calling or sending unsolicited messages, email marketing reaches potential customers who have willingly signed up to receive communication from your brand. It’s often a natural next step after lead generation efforts where leads aren’t yet ready for direct sales pitches. Here’s how you can make it work: Collaborate with the marketing team. Work closely to align your marketing strategy with sales efforts. Build a quality email list. Gather contacts through sign-ups, subscriptions, or opt-ins on your website and other channels. Segment your audience. Group your subscribers based on demographics, interests, or behaviors. Craft compelling content. Create engaging and relevant content, including promotions, educational resources, and product updates. Create email sequences. Use email automation tools to set up workflows that will trigger relevant emails based on your rules. The part where you align with your marketing department is particularly important for the success of this campaign. Whether you let them handle it or you work together on every step, your alignment will help turn potential leads into actual sales faster. 7 . Online Advertising Need to gain traction fast? Paid media is a top choice among SaaS businesses. But which platform should you choose: LinkedIn, Facebook, Google, or another channel? The answer to this question lies in understanding your audience. For instance, GoogleAds are perfect for a B2B brand looking to capture prospects actively searching for solutions or services. It’s like using a shortcut to SEO—your landing pages will appear at the top of search results when people are searching for relevant keywords. If your sales strategy requires creating awareness first, channels like LinkedIn or Facebook are better choices. Now, the decision hinges on whether your audience is active on these platforms and your budget (note that LinkedIn Ads are more expensive) . 8 . Affiliate Programs Whether you already have an extensive customer base or not, an affiliate program is a way to accelerate new customer acquisition. An affiliate program, also known as a referral program, lets you promote and sell your products or services through your loyal customers and partners—or anyone willing to earn a commission on a sale. While it does involve sharing a small part of your profit (usually 2% to 15%, depending on your offer's cost) with a third party, it’s one of the least resource-intensive sales channels. In some cases, especially where sales depend on word of mouth, it’s also the most cost-effective strategy. You can either self-host your affiliate program, tracking sales and managing payouts yourself, or use a third-party affiliate platform to host your program. Using a third-party platform requires minimal effort to set up the program and partner conditions, and it handles tracking and managing the program for you. The best part is that affiliate platforms often include an online marketplace where potential partners can find you. 9 . Trade Shows Exhibiting your product or service at trade shows is a great way to raise awareness and engage in meaningful face-to-face conversations with your prospects. It’s actually one of the top three marketing investment priorities for B2B companies. In the B2B world, these shows are often part of major conferences. They attract attendees who are exploring offerings without much purchase intent. This makes trade shows especially effective for entering new markets. 10. E-Commerce Channels Do you sell physical products to B2B customers? You can increase your reach and drive sales with the following e-commerce channels: Wholesale B2B platforms. Platforms like Alibaba connect business-to-business (B2B) suppliers and distributors looking to invest in wholesale products. Niche-specific marketplaces. Distribution channels like ThomasNet offer a more narrow focus and are designed for procurement professionals in specific categories. General e-commerce platforms. You can create your own online storefront with platforms like Shopify and BigCommerce. They offer dedicated functionality to build buyer portals, manage invoicing, process payments, and other critical features for B2B sellers. 11. Partnering With Consulting and Professional Services Maybe you don’t need thousands of customers. Perhaps you only need a few large clients who deliver services to their own customers and need your product to do it effectively. Here’s how to use partnerships to grow your business: Look for large agencies and established consultants in your niche. Search LinkedIn and industry marketplaces to find potential partners. Research their tech stacks. Find a point of contact within the organization and understand their current pain points with the solutions they use. Create special discounts or pricing plans for these partners. The potential business they bring in will far outweigh the cost of these discounts. Be ready to support them extensively. Large clients may require custom solutions and account management. Are you ready for it? Another way to use partnerships to drive sales is by having them resell your product. If your product complements their services, they might be interested in selling it to their customers. For instance, if you offer CRM software for jewelry brands, a jewelry marketing agency might want to transition their clients from legacy systems to your more user-friendly option. Choosing the Right B2B Sales Channels for Your Business Haven’t decided yet which of these channels will fit your strategy best? This process will help you make an informed decision: 1. Map Out Your Buyer’s Journey The buyer journey is your prospects’ path to purchase. Your task is to put the “traffic signs” at the right points to direct them toward the shortest path. You likely have several customer personas, each with distinct buyer journeys. Follow this process to map out the buyer’s journey for each persona: Understand the role of your persona in the company. Are they an influencer, user, or decision-maker? Determine where each persona enters your sales funnel. Are they actively searching for a solution, or do you need to build problem awareness? Outline all interactions potential clients have with your brand, from initial contact to purchase and beyond. Which interactions should be handled by the sales team? Break down the journey into stages such as awareness, consideration, decision, and post-purchase. What stage does each touchpoint correspond to? You’ve just created a basic buyer’s journey map. If you already have historical data at hand, this process will be even smoother. 2. See What Similar Businesses Are Doing for Sales You know your customers; now you need to know your close competitors. Are they actively building their presence on LinkedIn? Are they investing in paid ads? Are they participating in trade shows? Take note of their strategies and consider trying them yourself. If these methods work for your competitors, they will likely work for you too. 3. Evaluate the Channel’s Potential for Your Goals Well, you can't do everything your competitors do at once. You need to prioritize your initiatives. But how? Here’s the answer: Be specific with your current objectives. Are you building brand awareness, generating qualified leads, or increasing high-ticket sales? Turn to your buyer’s journey. Which sales channels align with your business goals and drive prospects along the shortest path to achieving them? Focus on what drives the biggest impact on your goals at the moment. 4. Continue to Analyze and Optimize As you implement your chosen channels, you’ll likely uncover discrepancies between your hypotheses and reality—and that's okay. What's not okay is sticking with channels that aren't delivering results. Monitor your performance metrics and don’t hesitate to adjust your approaches or stop using the channels that show no positive results within a few months. 5. Unlock the Full Potential of Your Sales Channels With AI Like it or not, your competition is already implementing AI into their workflows. In fact, as many as 63% of sales leaders say AI helps them stay competitive in their industry. AI allows you to maximize the potential of your sales team and offer more personalized customer experiences—no wonder it’s a priority for most sales teams. Here are some ideas for how you can augment your sales channels with AI: Hire AI SDRs to hand over cold outreach and generate more qualified leads, faster. Try Ava now . Use AI features built into your CRM system. AI copilots will help you craft marketing and sales email campaigns, prioritize leads, and more. Fill your e-commerce website with AI-generated content. Generate AI product headshots, images, and video materials for your ads and landing page copy. Use AI-powered sentiment analysis to analyze conversations with your leads and get recommendations for improving your strategy. This is just a snapshot of how AI can improve your sales workflows. Start automating your outbound sales process with Ava. Share Article You might also like Ready to Supercharge Your Outbound? Our AI-first platform equips your team with best-in-class outbound tools and our AI BDR Ava, who automates your entire outbound workflow. Phone Get Started Products Artisan Sales Overview Ava, the AI Sales Agent B2B Data Sales Playbooks Email Warmup Sales Automation Resources Blog Demos Support Case Studies Changelog Soon Solutions Enterprise Midmarket Startups Lead Gen Agencies Soon Company About Us Contact Us Careers Artisan Labs Soon © 2024 Artisan AI Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service Privacy Policy $ /$

html B2B Sales KPIs: A Guide to Growth Metrics That Matter Contact Sales Login Contact Sales Products Solutions Resources Pricing Enterprise Sales B2B Sales KPIs: A Guide to Growth Metrics That Matter Updated On: August 7, 2024 13 minutes read If you shudder a little when you hear the acronym “KPI”, you’re in good company. For many marketers and salespeople, those three little letters are an ill omen. Sales KPIs are important. But only when they truly help drive revenue. You’re already gasping for air in a rising tide of data. And you’re not going to hit your growth and revenue goals with unnecessary additions to your crowded analytics dashboard. We get it. That’s why we’ve got a zero-tolerance approach to vanity metrics that exist solely to fill out largely meaningless performance reports. We’ll cover KPIs that actually generate sales growth and align with your business goals. Crucially, we’ll explain why they’re important and how they can help you and your team make better decisions. Let’s get to it. Why B2B Sales KPIs Matter Key performance indicators are important because they set your company’s direction for growth. They’re the bedrock on which you define goals, measure progress, align your team's strategic activities, and make critical business decisions. KPIs are not performance targets themselves. Rather, they’re the metrics used to label your targets and measure progress towards them. The target is the specific goal you're aiming for while the associated KPI tells you if you’re on track to achieve it. For example, you set a target of achieving a 20% lead-to-customer conversion rate by the end of Q4. In this case, 20% by the end of Q4 is the target while lead-to-customer conversions is the KPI. You might be wondering what the difference between KPIs and other metrics is. The clue is in the word “key.” KPIs are metrics considered fundamental to the success and high-level goals of your business. Many other metrics focus on tactical and operational processes. For example, your website bounce rate or email open rate are both important metrics, but they’re not key indicators of your company’s overall health. Tracking KPIs gives you a basis for identifying strengths and weaknesses in your strategic approach to growth and determining whether or not your goals are realistic. You can use this understanding to make data-backed decisions likely to lead to improvements. In addition, sales KPIs are incredibly useful for fostering accountability and motivation in your sales team. Nothing energizes a sales time like KPIs on track to meet targets. Equally, subpar performance creates a clear context for identifying areas of weakness and inefficiency. 12 Important B2B Sales KPIs to Track 1. Sales Activity and Outreach Definition: Activity KPIs measure the number of actions a sales team makes in a particular area, such as volume of cold calls dialed or email follow-ups sent. They contrast with sales performance metrics because they do not track specific outcomes. Why it matters: While sales activity and outreach KPIs don’t measure performance directly, they’re still important because they indicate the overall efficiency of a sales team and act as a basis for setting realistic performance goals. When you know how many actions your sales team is completing, you can better determine appropriate outcomes. “Increase cold sales calls in America and Canada by 20% over 12 months” is an example of a goal based on an activity KPI. Examples: Cold emails sent, calls dialed, demos given, meetings booked, and proposals generated. Measuring sales activities can quickly become confusing. One way of staying organized is to use an AI sales development representative (SDR) to ensure all activity is logged and available in a single place. Artisan has an AI SDR called Ava, and she can track all sales activity within the platform. Get in touch today to see how Ava can help you track all your key sales activities with practically no manual input. 2. Sales-Qualified Leads by Source Definition: Sales-qualified leads by source measures the volume of interested leads that come from specific sales and marketing channels. Why it matters: Tracking new sales-qualified leads by source tells you which of your marketing channels is most effective at generating high-quality leads. Some channels will provide large volumes of low-quality leads while others will generate low volumes of high-quality leads. By measuring sales-qualified leads—leads who have moved some way down your sales funnel and are likely to buy—you can identify those channels that effectively drive both quantity and quality and leverage them further. Examples: Track the volume of sales-qualified leads by source across all your channels: email marketing, social media, search engine traffic, paid online and offline advertising, referrals, affiliate marketing, events and joint ventures. 3. Average Lead Response Time (Speed to Lead) Definition: Your average lead response time (also called speed to lead) measures the average time it takes you to respond to a lead once they’ve contacted your company (by filling out a web form or ending an enquiry email, for example). Why it matters: The faster you can reach out to leads, the more likely they are to convert. Forbes reports that you’re 100 times more likely to successfully contact a lead if you follow up in under five minutes. If you can reduce your average lead response time, you’ll see gains across other baseline KPIs like sales and revenue. Formula: Average lead response time = Total time taken to respond to leads / Number of leads 4. Marketing Qualified Leads (MQL) to Sales Qualified Leads (SQL) Conversion Rate Definition: Your MQL-to-SQL rate measures the percentage of leads transitioning from marketing-qualified leads to sales-qualified leads. Why it matters: Sales teams use different lead-scoring methods to define MQLs and SQLs. However, in all cases the distinction points to levels of interest. An MQL has shown enough interest in your company to be considered likely to buy. An SQL has moved through part of your sales funnel and is considered highly likely to buy. Your MQL-to-SQL strategy indicates the efficacy of your lead nurturing process. A low percentage may point to the fact that your sales team is not engaging adequately with leads generated and their approach needs improving. Formula: Marketing-qualified leads (MQL) to sales-qualified leads (SQL) conversion rate = (Total Number of SQLs / Total number of MQLs) x 100 5. Qualified Lead to Customer Conversion Rate (Sales Close Rate) Definition: Your lead to customer conversion rate measures how many of your qualified leads are converting to customers. Unlike your MQL-to-SQL rate, it tracks the performance of your whole sales funnel, from early stage marketing to the moment a lead signs on the dotted line (or hits that “Pay Now” button). Why it matters: Your lead to customer conversion rate measures the success of your sales funnel at a very high level. Unlike more specific KPIs that measure individual stages of your funnel, your lead conversion rate gives an overall indicator of the health of your “engine.” Boosting your lead conversion rate will directly impact your revenue and profitability. Qualified leads in this sense encompass both marketing and sales qualified leads. Formula: Lead conversion rate = (Number of new customers / Number of qualified leads) x 100 One of the best ways of increasing your lead conversion rate is to use detailed ideal customer profiles (ICPs) based on up-to-date data. Artisan’s AI SDR Ava has a database of over 300 million potential leads from which she can target your ICP, all on autopilot. Get in touch now to see how Artisan can help you meet your sales targets. 6. Sales Win Rate (Closed-Won Opportunities) Definition: Your sales win rate measures your closed won opportunities against all closed opportunities (closed won opportunities and closed opportunities that didn’t result in a sale). Why it matters: Your sales win rate shows you how many leads have converted to customers out of all leads who have completed the sales cycle . Closed-lost leads have given a definite “no” to your offer or been deemed inactive. This KPI is different to your lead to customer conversion rate or sales close rate because it illustrates how well your sales team is converting leads they’ve actively engaged with into customers. A poor month-by-month lead to customer conversion rate and a high sales win rate may indicate that your sales team is struggling to connect with all leads and many are remaining as open opportunities. Formula: Win rate = (Closed-won leads / (Closed-won leads + closed-lost leads)) x 100 7. Customer Acquisition Cost (CAC) Definition: Your customer acquisition cost tells you how much it costs to gain a new customer. Why it matters: Reducing your customer acquisition cost increases revenue. If the cost of acquiring a customer is reducing over time, it indicates that your marketing and sales team are becoming more efficient, either because of streamlined processes, more effective sales techniques, or the identification of appropriate marketing channels. Formula: Customer acquisition cost = Total expenditure on sales and marketing / Number of new customers 8. Pipeline Velocity Definition: Your pipeline velocity, also called sales velocity, measures the speed at which sales-qualified leads become customers. It’s calculated as revenue per quarter—for example, $100,000/quarter, which represents $100,000 in closed deals over a quarter. Why it matters: Pipeline velocity measures the efficiency of your later-stage sales funnel and allows you to make revenue forecasts. A low Pipeline velocity may suggest that your sales team is experiencing operational difficulties or their sales techniques could be improved. A higher pipeline velocity means a better return on investment (ROI) for your sales budget. Formula: Pipeline velocity = (Number of sales-qualified leads x average deal value x win rate) / (Length of sales cycle / 91 (days in a business quarter)) 9. Customer Retention Definition: Your customer retention rate measures the percentage of customers who stay with you over a given period. It’s closely related to churn rate, which measures the number of customers who leave over the same period. Why it matters: Your ability to hold onto customers directly impacts your revenue. It costs four to five times as much to acquire a new customer than retain an existing one. In essence, a high customer retention rate means that your customers are happy and you are effectively building loyalty and long-term satisfaction. This also creates upsell and cross-selling opportunities for you. Formula: Customer retention rate = (Number customers at end of period - number of customers acquired during period) / Number of customers at start of period 10. Customer Lifetime Value (CLV) Definition: Customer lifetime value measures the amount of money a customer will spend with you over their lifetime. This can be quite a tricky KPI to calculate because you need enough data to accurately determine the average length of time a customer remains active in addition to their order value and purchase frequency. Why it matters: Customer lifetime value tracks three important sales metrics in combination: the average time a customer remains active, how often they make a purchase, and the average value of the purchases they make. It’s a full snapshot of the value of your typical customer. If it’s increasing, it means that you’re providing value, building strong customer relationships, and driving up your average deal size. Formula: Customer lifetime value = Average order value x Purchase frequency x Customer Lifetime 11. Sales Growth Rate Definition: Your sales growth rate measures the volume of sales in your most recent period compared with the previous period. It’s one of the most important growth metrics for a company. Why it matters: Your sales growth rate is one of the strongest—if not the strongest—measure of your company’s overall growth. If you’re seeing a steady rise in sales growth, it is likely that your sales team is becoming more efficient, the number of deals is increasing, and marketing efforts are going well. Formula: Sales growth rate = ((Sales in most recent period - Sales in previous period) / Sales in the previous period) x 100 12. Sales Revenue Definition: Sales revenue is a straightforward KPI that looks at the raw revenue from sales over a given period. Why it matters: Sales revenue is distinct from turnover. For many companies, sales revenue alone makes up total turnover, but this is not always the case. Where other sources, like investment returns, asset sales, subsidies and so on, contribute to turnover, it’s important to differentiate. Month-on-month or year-on-year sales revenue is a useful KPI for measuring long-term sustainable growth. Formula: Sales revenue = Number of sales x Average sale value Strategies to Set B2B Sales KPIs for Success Now we’ve covered the KPIs, let’s look at how to pick the perfect mix to generate new leads and fill your sales pipeline so it’s overflowing with B2B goodness. 1. Select the Right KPIs Align with business goals. Top-tier sales KPIs should align with executive goals which then “cascade” down your organization in the form of more specific KPIs. For example, you may decide on a high-level company goal to double sales revenue. Sales managers may then use pipeline velocity as the KPI to measure movement towards this goal and individual sales reps may be tracked against outreach activity KPIs. Analyze historical data. Analyzing historical data helps you create forecasts that can act as the basis of realistic goals and relevant KPIs. Historical data can also highlight missed opportunities for immediate results. Prioritize actionable metrics. Use the SMART framework to pick KPIs and sales metrics that are Specific, Measurable, Achievable, Relevant, and Time-Bound. Benchmark against industry standards. Industry standards are widely available, with reputable sources like Gartner, McKinsey, and Forresster often publishing industry-specific benchmarks. Ultimately, your in-house data should be your main guide, but third-party insights have their place. Consult stakeholders. Involve all decision-makers across your organization to ensure alignment with high-level KPIs. Consider stakeholder mapping to ensure alignment with company-wide goals and specific metrics. 2. Keep it Simple, Clear, and Measurable Choose KPIs that are relevant to different stages of your sales funnel and well-suited to your existing sales processes. Focus on a core set of sales KPIs that are likely to provide the most valuable insights and help you leverage the most prominent growth opportunities. Wherever possible, use automation tools to streamline the collection and analysis of data so that you can measure KPIs in real time in a way that is clear and coherent to the whole sales team. 3. Track Progress Regularly and Adjust KPIs are dynamic, fluid metrics. Track progress and make adjustments at both the tactical and strategic level as needed. This ensures your chosen KPIs remain relevant and aligned with broad business goals and that team performance stays at an optimal level. Here are some ideas for adjusting your approach: Refine lower-tier metrics Update performance benchmarks Explore ways to improve data quality Add greater detail to reporting Explore possible automations Gather qualitative feedback feedback Adjust timeframes based on sales performance Test and integrate new tools Realignment incentives where appropriate In addition, it’s important to ensure that your whole team is involved in the brainstorming process, as they will often have insights into both the best sales opportunities and where sales strategies are experiencing issues and bottlenecks. 4. Embrace New Technology Stay up-to-date on new data analytics tools and other software to assist with tracking B2B sales KPIs. One of the most straightforward ways of optimizing your team’s sales performance is by using AI-driven automation tools, many of which sync with your main sales CRM. Boost your sales with Artisan's data-driven outreach optimization. Our platform analyzes response rates across campaigns, refining your strategy for maximum conversion . Book a demo to discover how Artisan can help you exceed targets. Wrapping It Up: KPIs as Keys to Growth KPIs are fundamental to your whole business strategy. Pick the wrong ones, and you could be committing to months and even years of subpar growth and internal misalignment. However, if you can identify KPIs that fit the broader vision of your company—whether that’s fast growth, a hyper-loyal fanbase, or a dominant presence on your primary sales channels—you’re priming your company for success. Even better, when your chosen KPIs suit the unique strengths of your sales reps, they’re near-guaranteed to boost team performance and drive morale. Add a layer of automation and AI-driven productivity by taking advantage of the array of powerful tools now at your disposal, and you’ll be hitting those targets faster than you can say “sales." Share Article You might also like Ready to Supercharge Your Outbound? Our AI-first platform equips your team with best-in-class outbound tools and our AI BDR Ava, who automates your entire outbound workflow. Phone Get Started Products Artisan Sales Overview Ava, the AI Sales Agent B2B Data Sales Playbooks Email Warmup Sales Automation Resources Blog Demos Support Case Studies Changelog Soon Solutions Enterprise Midmarket Startups Lead Gen Agencies Soon Company About Us Contact Us Careers Artisan Labs Soon © 2024 Artisan AI Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service Privacy Policy $ /$

html Careers | Artisan Contact Sales Login Contact Sales Products Solutions Resources Pricing Enterprise We're Building the Next Paradigm of Software With the Top 0.1% of Talent The future of software is AI-first, and the incumbents aren’t going to build it - we are. Apply Now Our Mission We’re Creating an Ecosystem Where Humans & Artisans Work Together in Symbiosis At Artisan, we’re anchored by 2 missions: Creating the most autonomous AI employees. Replacing the ever-growing stack of SaaS products with one beautiful & functional consolidated platform. These missions propel us toward our vision of an ecosystem of exceptional consolidated software and digital labor together in Artisan. We Care Deeply About the Quality of Our Work We expect everyone on our team to relentlessly pursue perfection in what they do. We’re not going to win by doing anything average - everything we create and do should be the best version of what it is. Each product we release should be better than every point solution that does the same thing. Our GTM strategy should be more creative, all-encompassing and effective than any competitors. We should provide the best possible experience to customers throughout the sales & CS cycle. Who Should Join Us If You’re Extraordinary, Join Us on Our Mission You take extremely direct feedback on board without being offended. You care deeply about the quality of your work. Down to the last pixel. You’re obsessed with leveraging your time to solve problems in the most efficient way. You work well in teams, but also have an “I will figure it out” attitude independently. You’re willing to work hard to build the future – even on nights and weekends. You’re highly ambitious and love to push the boundaries of what’s possible. Join The Artisan Team Build the Future With Us We intentionally don’t post specific job listings here. If you’re exceptionally talented at what you do - whatever that might be - please apply below. Ready to Supercharge Your Outbound? Our AI-first platform equips your team with best-in-class outbound tools and our AI BDR Ava, who automates your entire outbound workflow. Phone Get Started Products Artisan Sales Overview Ava, the AI Sales Agent B2B Data Sales Playbooks Email Warmup Sales Automation Resources Blog Demos Support Case Studies Changelog Soon Solutions Enterprise Midmarket Startups Lead Gen Agencies Soon Company About Us Contact Us Careers Artisan Labs Soon © 2024 Artisan AI Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service Privacy Policy $ /$

html Careers | Artisan Contact Sales Login Contact Sales Products Solutions Resources Pricing Enterprise We're Building the Next Paradigm of Software With the Top 0.1% of Talent The future of software is AI-first, and the incumbents aren’t going to build it - we are. Apply Now Our Mission We’re Creating an Ecosystem Where Humans & Artisans Work Together in Symbiosis At Artisan, we’re anchored by 2 missions: Creating the most autonomous AI employees. Replacing the ever-growing stack of SaaS products with one beautiful & functional consolidated platform. These missions propel us toward our vision of an ecosystem of exceptional consolidated software and digital labor together in Artisan. We Care Deeply About the Quality of Our Work We expect everyone on our team to relentlessly pursue perfection in what they do. We’re not going to win by doing anything average - everything we create and do should be the best version of what it is. Each product we release should be better than every point solution that does the same thing. Our GTM strategy should be more creative, all-encompassing and effective than any competitors. We should provide the best possible experience to customers throughout the sales & CS cycle. Who Should Join Us If You’re Extraordinary, Join Us on Our Mission You take extremely direct feedback on board without being offended. You care deeply about the quality of your work. Down to the last pixel. You’re obsessed with leveraging your time to solve problems in the most efficient way. You work well in teams, but also have an “I will figure it out” attitude independently. You’re willing to work hard to build the future – even on nights and weekends. You’re highly ambitious and love to push the boundaries of what’s possible. Join The Artisan Team Build the Future With Us We intentionally don’t post specific job listings here. If you’re exceptionally talented at what you do - whatever that might be - please apply below. Ready to Supercharge Your Outbound? Our AI-first platform equips your team with best-in-class outbound tools and our AI BDR Ava, who automates your entire outbound workflow. Phone Get Started Products Artisan Sales Overview Ava, the AI Sales Agent B2B Data Sales Playbooks Email Warmup Sales Automation Resources Blog Demos Support Case Studies Changelog Soon Solutions Enterprise Midmarket Startups Lead Gen Agencies Soon Company About Us Contact Us Careers Artisan Labs Soon © 2024 Artisan AI Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service Privacy Policy $ /$

html How bioaccess Booked Dozens of Meetings By Using Artisan Contact Sales Login Contact Sales Products Solutions Resources Pricing Enterprise bioaccess bioaccessla. com Industry Medical Device Startups Target Market USA Customer Story bioaccess Transforming Business Development with Ava – Julio Martinez-Clark, CEO of bioaccess™ “The platform is just fantastic. It has made our business development outreach way easier, automated, and systematic.” bioaccess™ is a niche contract research organization (CRO) that facilitates medical device trials. Operating in the hubs of medical innovation in the US, bioaccess™ assists in regulatory approvals, patient recruitment, and the coordination of trials between sponsors and hospitals. Before Artisan, bioaccess Was Struggling With Lead Generation - Now They Achieve a Consistent 1.2% Positive Response Rate Before having Artisan Sales as a part of their tech stack and hiring Ava, bioaccess relied heavily on word-of-mouth and manual lead generation, which were time-consuming and inconsistent. Their outreach efforts were mostly reactive, waiting for potential clients to contact them. As a small company, bioaccess™ found it challenging to scale their business development efforts without additional resources. ”We are looking to get acquired in 3 to 5 years, and for that to happen, we need to show our potential buyer that we are a money making machine and that we have a systematic way of finding leads. Artisan has given us that. That possibility. So it's really a godsend.” Artisan Gave bioaccess an Easy & Automated Way to Generate Hot Leads on Autopilot Artisan's platform, powered by Ava, revolutionized bioaccess’ approach to business development. Ava integrated data from various sources, including a niche provider, to create a comprehensive and up-to-date database of potential clients. ”We're a small company - we only had a few people before using Artisan and were wasting a lot of time doing a small volume of manual lead generation. Now I have Ava doing 24/7 mass outreach for us, which is fantastic.” When asked what Julio would want to change about Artisan, he said “nothing.” He did say that he was very excited about our product roadmap, and that he looks forward to the new features Artisan plans to roll out for sales and the Marketing Artisan. Bioaccess didn’t have the resources to hire a full-time BDR to do their outreach. With Ava, at a fraction of the cost of a human BDR, they’re getting the same volume of leads. Ready to transform your business development process? Book a sales meeting with us today and discover how Ava can revolutionize your outreach efforts. Ready to Supercharge Your Outbound? Our AI-first platform equips your team with best-in-class outbound tools and our AI BDR Ava, who automates your entire outbound workflow. Phone Get Started Products Artisan Sales Overview Ava, the AI Sales Agent B2B Data Sales Playbooks Email Warmup Sales Automation Resources Blog Demos Support Case Studies Changelog Soon Solutions Enterprise Midmarket Startups Lead Gen Agencies Soon Company About Us Contact Us Careers Artisan Labs Soon © 2024 Artisan AI Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service Privacy Policy $ /$

html Contact Us | Artisan Contact Sales Login Contact Sales Products Solutions Resources Pricing Enterprise Contact Us Have questions about Artisan? Fill out the contact form and a member of our team will respond shortly! If you’d like a demo of the Artisan platform, you can book a call with our sales team here . If you’re an existing customer who needs support with your account, you can check out our support center here . If you’re interested in applying for a role at Artisan, you can fill out our online application here . We’re here to help! Fill out our form to reach our team or email us at hello@artisan. co Full Name* Email Address* Phone Number* Phone Which category best describes your inquiry?* Select Category General Questions Sales Support Partnerships Press Careers Other How can we help? Submit Just fill out the form and someone from our team will respond shortly! Ready to Supercharge Your Outbound? Our AI-first platform equips your team with best-in-class outbound tools and our AI BDR Ava, who automates your entire outbound workflow. Phone Get Started Products Artisan Sales Overview Ava, the AI Sales Agent B2B Data Sales Playbooks Email Warmup Sales Automation Resources Blog Demos Support Case Studies Changelog Soon Solutions Enterprise Midmarket Startups Lead Gen Agencies Soon Company About Us Contact Us Careers Artisan Labs Soon © 2024 Artisan AI Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service Privacy Policy $ /$

html Complete AI SDR Outbound Platform for Enterprise Contact Sales Login Contact Sales Products Solutions Resources Pricing Enterprise Security & Compliance The security of your data and compliance of our platform are of the utmost importance to us. Talk to Sales Certifications We’re currently in the process of being audited for the following certifications: SOC 2 Type 2 This certification ensures that our services meet the high standards for security, availability, processing integrity, confidentiality, and privacy of customer data. ISO 27001 As the leading international standard for information security management, obtaining ISO 27001 certification signifies our commitment to implementing a robust and comprehensive information security management system (ISMS). PCI Attestation of Compliance This attestation demonstrates our adherence to the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS), ensuring that all credit card data processed, stored, or transmitted is secure against breaches and fraud. Artisan For Enterprise Free your sales team from hours of manual work, so they can focus on what really matters: closing deals. Explore Enterprise Consolidate Your Fragmented Stack We consolidate every tool your team needs for outbound with best-in-class products - from B2B Data to Email Warmup. Free Reps to Focus on High-Leverage Work Ava automates over 80% of your BDRs' outbound workflow, and does it more effectively. This frees up your reps so they focus on high-leverage activities like calling prospects and closing deals. Automate Your Best Manual Strategies We can build custom Playbooks that replicate the research & email writing workflows of your top performers, automate them with Ava, and make them available to the entire team. The Answers To Your Questions Contact Sales How does Artisan pricing work? Artisan is priced based on the volume of leads you are doing outreach to. We can split this between BDR & AE seats as required. We have specific security requirements that are not covered on your site - can you accommodate them? Yes! Reach out to our sales team and we can work with you to scope your specific requirements and ensure Artisan is set up and used in a compliant way. What kind of support do you offer? We offer white glove support as standard. We will work closely with you through the onboarding process, you will have a dedicated account manager, and for larger customers we can set up a direct connection via Slack or Teams. I’m an existing customer, how do I access the new pricing packages? Reach out to your Artisan account executive, who can do a full walkthrough of the new packages and create a customized proposal for you. Ready to Supercharge Your Outbound? Our AI-first platform equips your team with best-in-class outbound tools and our AI BDR Ava, who automates your entire outbound workflow. Phone Get Started Products Artisan Sales Overview Ava, the AI Sales Agent B2B Data Sales Playbooks Email Warmup Sales Automation Resources Blog Demos Support Case Studies Changelog Soon Solutions Enterprise Midmarket Startups Lead Gen Agencies Soon Company About Us Contact Us Careers Artisan Labs Soon © 2024 Artisan AI Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service Privacy Policy $ /$

html Artisan Plans & Pricing | Supercharge Your Outbound Contact Sales Login Contact Sales Products Solutions Resources Pricing Enterprise Artisan Pricing Customized plans and features for every business, from early-stage startups to large enterprises. Phone Get Started Email Deliverability Enhance your sender reputation and ensure robust email health with our built-in deliverability optimization features. Trust that every email will reach your leads' inboxes. Email warmup Bounce testing Data cleaning Dynamic email sending limits Mailbox health & placement monitoring And more Request Pricing Sales Automation Our AI Sales Agent, Ava, automates 80% of the outbound sales cycle. With her on your team, you’ll never have to worry about spending hours on manual tasks again. Lead discovery Lead research Email ghostwriting Full autopilot And more Request Pricing AI Sales Playbooks Our AI Playbooks leverage GenAI to emulate various types of sales emails typically researched and written by humans, tailored uniquely for each lead. Instantly access proven outbound strategies to supercharge your outreach. A series of AI Playbooks that replicate successfully outbound strategies Ability to personalize email styles Custom Playbooks And more Request Pricing Full Agency Management Tired of managing your own outbound? With Agency-Level Management, we will set up, manage and optimize your account for you – just sit back and watch the meetings roll in. Full campaign set up and management ICP A/B testing Messaging optimization Ongoing campaign refinement Lead response management Meeting booking And more Request Pricing Lead Discovery & Enrichment Zero in on your ICP with our rich suite of features to identify, validate, research and manage thousands of prospects. Access to 300M+ high quality B2B contacts Data enrichment Web scraping And more Request Pricing Meet Ava Meet Our First Artisan, Ava, the AI BDR She’s 10x more productive than a human, at one-tenth of the cost. She finds leads, researches them, and writes hundreds of hyper-personalized emails. All in a matter of seconds. The Answers To Your Questions Contact Sales How does Artisan pricing work? Artisan is priced based on the volume of leads you are doing outreach to. We can split this between BDR & AE seats as required. We have specific security requirements that are not covered on your site - can you accommodate them? Yes! Reach out to our sales team and we can work with you to scope your specific requirements and ensure Artisan is set up and used in a compliant way. What kind of support do you offer? We offer white glove support as standard. We will work closely with you through the onboarding process, you will have a dedicated account manager, and for larger customers we can set up a direct connection via Slack or Teams. I’m an existing customer, how do I access the new pricing packages? Reach out to your Artisan account executive, who can do a full walkthrough of the new packages and create a customized proposal for you. Ready to Supercharge Your Outbound? Our AI-first platform equips your team with best-in-class outbound tools and our AI BDR Ava, who automates your entire outbound workflow. Phone Get Started Products Artisan Sales Overview Ava, the AI Sales Agent B2B Data Sales Playbooks Email Warmup Sales Automation Resources Blog Demos Support Case Studies Changelog Soon Solutions Enterprise Midmarket Startups Lead Gen Agencies Soon Company About Us Contact Us Careers Artisan Labs Soon © 2024 Artisan AI Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service Privacy Policy $ /$

html Boost Your Sales with the Best B2B Data on the Market Contact Sales Login Contact Sales Products Solutions Resources Pricing Enterprise Billions of B2B Data Points on Over 300 Million Contacts We combine industry-leading data providers with in-house data collection to collect verified demographic, firmographic, technographic, intent and activity data on over 300 million B2B contacts. You won't find more comprehensive data anywhere else. Phone Get Started B2B Data Coverage in Over 200 Countries Ava has data coverage globally, to complement her ability to research and write emails in over 40 languages. English Spanish +40 Talk to Sales Features Best-in-Class AI Data Enrichment We collect nearly every type of data available on B2B contacts through our data partners and proprietary in-house data collection tools. Web Scraping Ava will research leads using their company website, blog, Twitter and LinkedIn to find relevant, unique information like achievements, recent social activity, keyword-based intent signals and personal interests. Our Custom Playbooks can seek out and find any type of data your reps are currently searching for manually. Intent Data We understand that catching prospects at the moment of intent is invaluable. Ava collects intent signals like job changes, personal online activity, search topics, funding events, technographic & organizational changes and so much more to make your outreach as timely as possible. Technographic Data Sales teams looking for high-quality, accurate data on what tech stack and software tools companies are using can take advantage of Ava’s automatic technographic data collection abilities. We Can Replicate Any Research Workflow You’re Currently Doing Work with our AI team to analyze your top-performing prospect research workflows and automate them. If your reps can access the data, we can build an AI Playbook to automate the process of data collection and hyper-personalized email writing with Ava. All Included In One Subscription Access all of these features and so many more with Artisan Sales. B2B Data AI Sales Playbooks 3rd Party Data Enrichment End-to-End Demand Generation Hyper-Personalized Email Writing Intent Data Deliverability Management Data Analysis B2B Data AI Sales Playbooks 3rd Party Data Enrichment End-to-End Demand Generation Hyper-Personalized Email Writing Intent Data Deliverability Management Data Analysis B2B Data AI Sales Playbooks 3rd Party Data Enrichment End-to-End Demand Generation Hyper-Personalized Email Writing Intent Data Deliverability Management Data Analysis B2B Data AI Sales Playbooks 3rd Party Data Enrichment End-to-End Demand Generation Hyper-Personalized Email Writing Intent Data Deliverability Management Data Analysis Bounce Testing Lead Discovery Lead Research Outbound CRM Deliverability Optimization Email Warmup Timezone Tracking Translation Web Scraping Bounce Testing Lead Discovery Lead Research Outbound CRM Deliverability Optimization Email Warmup Timezone Tracking Translation Web Scraping Bounce Testing Lead Discovery Lead Research Outbound CRM Deliverability Optimization Email Warmup Timezone Tracking Translation Web Scraping Bounce Testing Lead Discovery Lead Research Outbound CRM Deliverability Optimization Email Warmup Timezone Tracking Translation Web Scraping Ready to Supercharge Your Outbound? Our AI-first platform equips your team with best-in-class outbound tools and our AI BDR Ava, who automates your entire outbound workflow. Phone Get Started Products Artisan Sales Overview Ava, the AI Sales Agent B2B Data Sales Playbooks Email Warmup Sales Automation Resources Blog Demos Support Case Studies Changelog Soon Solutions Enterprise Midmarket Startups Lead Gen Agencies Soon Company About Us Contact Us Careers Artisan Labs Soon © 2024 Artisan AI Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service Privacy Policy $ /$

html Use Our Email Warmup Tool to Optimize Your Deliverability Contact Sales Login Contact Sales Products Solutions Resources Pricing Enterprise Built-In Email Warmup to Protect Your Domain Boost your sender reputation and sidestep spam filters with our AI-driven email warmup. Phone Get Started Features We Do Everything To Ensure Your Email Is Received We have a comprehensive strategy in place to maintain your email account health. By using your inbox to interact with real people, we ensure sustained, long-term deliverability. Automatically Remove Emails From Spam Artisan helps ensure your messages avoid the spam folder by opening them, marking them as important, and significantly improving your email reputation. Tailored Email Warmup Content Every email sent through Artisan's email warmup tool is fully personalized, enhancing deliverability and demonstrating that you are a genuine sender. Intelligent Email Warmup Strategy When you connect your mailbox to Artisan, we analyze details like domain age, mailbox age, and past reputation. This information allows us to tailor the perfect email warm-up strategy, ensuring a smart and careful approach. Comprehensive Monitoring and Alerts Artisan offers an intuitive dashboard that makes it easy to monitor your email deliverability progress and performance. Real Interactions, No Fake Accounts We ensure your email domain's reputation by using real email addresses for warm-ups, resulting in a flawless reputation and high open rates. Topic-Specific Warmup With Artisan, you we customize the topic of your warm-up emails. Whether you're in real estate or another industry, the messages will be relevant and AI-generated specifically for your needs. Automatic Email Archiving Artisan automatically archives all warm-up emails, keeping your inbox organized without the need for special filters. Safe and Secure Settings Our algorithms monitor numerous parameters to keep your mailbox and domain safe throughout the warm-up process. Multilingual Email Warmup Capabilities Artisan can warm up emails in over 30 languages, aligning with the languages of your future emails for a more effective warm-up process. Regular Mailbox Health Checks Artisan performs regular health checks on your mailbox, monitoring blacklists and ensuring proper settings (SPF, DKIM, DMARC) for optimal performance. All Included In One Subscription Access all of these features and so many more with Artisan Sales. B2B Data AI Sales Playbooks 3rd Party Data Enrichment End-to-End Demand Generation Hyper-Personalized Email Writing Intent Data Deliverability Management Data Analysis B2B Data AI Sales Playbooks 3rd Party Data Enrichment End-to-End Demand Generation Hyper-Personalized Email Writing Intent Data Deliverability Management Data Analysis B2B Data AI Sales Playbooks 3rd Party Data Enrichment End-to-End Demand Generation Hyper-Personalized Email Writing Intent Data Deliverability Management Data Analysis B2B Data AI Sales Playbooks 3rd Party Data Enrichment End-to-End Demand Generation Hyper-Personalized Email Writing Intent Data Deliverability Management Data Analysis Bounce Testing Lead Discovery Lead Research Outbound CRM Deliverability Optimization Email Warmup Timezone Tracking Translation Web Scraping Bounce Testing Lead Discovery Lead Research Outbound CRM Deliverability Optimization Email Warmup Timezone Tracking Translation Web Scraping Bounce Testing Lead Discovery Lead Research Outbound CRM Deliverability Optimization Email Warmup Timezone Tracking Translation Web Scraping Bounce Testing Lead Discovery Lead Research Outbound CRM Deliverability Optimization Email Warmup Timezone Tracking Translation Web Scraping Ready to Supercharge Your Outbound? Our AI-first platform equips your team with best-in-class outbound tools and our AI BDR Ava, who automates your entire outbound workflow. Phone Get Started Products Artisan Sales Overview Ava, the AI Sales Agent B2B Data Sales Playbooks Email Warmup Sales Automation Resources Blog Demos Support Case Studies Changelog Soon Solutions Enterprise Midmarket Startups Lead Gen Agencies Soon Company About Us Contact Us Careers Artisan Labs Soon © 2024 Artisan AI Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service Privacy Policy $ /$

html Automate Your Outbound Demand Gen with AI-Driven Sales Automation Contact Sales Login Contact Sales Products Solutions Resources Pricing Enterprise Consolidated Outbound Sales Automation Artisan Sales, our AI-driven sales automation platform, and Ava, our Sales Artisan, work in symbiosis to automate more than 80% of your outbound sales tasks. We utilize cutting-edge AI to automate and streamline your sales process more effectively than any other platform. Phone Get Started Features Ava Takes the Burden Off Your Sales Team Lead Discovery Lead Research Sales Strategy Email Writing Send Management Deliverability Optimization Response Rate Optimization Lead Discovery Automatically find B2B professional & e-commerce leads with over 300M contacts available. Talk To Sales Plays Well With Others Easily integrates with the tools you already use. Replaces Them Entirely Consolidate 10s of tools with one Artisan subscription. Save Time & Money Why You Should Switch to Artisan Sales We've got the best sales AI software on the market. We're product-driven, user-centric, and determined to bring outbound sales into the age of AI. Talk to Sales Save On Headcount With Artisan Sales, 80% of your outbound team’s tasks are automated, so you can reach more people without growing your team. An AI BDR That Self-Optimizes Ava isn't your average AI sales assistant. Not only does she automate tasks, she also learns from your feedback over time, just like a real human would. Get Up and Running Within A Week Learning to use Artisan Sales takes minutes - and with our dedicated support team's help, you'll be onboarded and live within days! Replicate Your Top Performers Using our AI Playbooks, we can work with you to automate your top-performing outbound research & writing workflows. All-In-One Subscription From email deliverability to B2B data, we've got it all. We've built best-in-class products for the entire outbound cycle, all in one place. Intent-Driven Outbound Harness the power of behavioral, firmographic, technographic, search term, social media keyword, review site and competitor user intent data. All Included In One Subscription Access all of these features and so many more with Artisan Sales. B2B Data AI Sales Playbooks 3rd Party Data Enrichment End-to-End Demand Generation Hyper-Personalized Email Writing Intent Data Deliverability Management Data Analysis B2B Data AI Sales Playbooks 3rd Party Data Enrichment End-to-End Demand Generation Hyper-Personalized Email Writing Intent Data Deliverability Management Data Analysis B2B Data AI Sales Playbooks 3rd Party Data Enrichment End-to-End Demand Generation Hyper-Personalized Email Writing Intent Data Deliverability Management Data Analysis B2B Data AI Sales Playbooks 3rd Party Data Enrichment End-to-End Demand Generation Hyper-Personalized Email Writing Intent Data Deliverability Management Data Analysis Bounce Testing Lead Discovery Lead Research Outbound CRM Deliverability Optimization Email Warmup Timezone Tracking Translation Web Scraping Bounce Testing Lead Discovery Lead Research Outbound CRM Deliverability Optimization Email Warmup Timezone Tracking Translation Web Scraping Bounce Testing Lead Discovery Lead Research Outbound CRM Deliverability Optimization Email Warmup Timezone Tracking Translation Web Scraping Bounce Testing Lead Discovery Lead Research Outbound CRM Deliverability Optimization Email Warmup Timezone Tracking Translation Web Scraping Ready to Supercharge Your Outbound? Our AI-first platform equips your team with best-in-class outbound tools and our AI BDR Ava, who automates your entire outbound workflow. Phone Get Started Products Artisan Sales Overview Ava, the AI Sales Agent B2B Data Sales Playbooks Email Warmup Sales Automation Resources Blog Demos Support Case Studies Changelog Soon Solutions Enterprise Midmarket Startups Lead Gen Agencies Soon Company About Us Contact Us Careers Artisan Labs Soon © 2024 Artisan AI Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service Privacy Policy $ /$

html Automate Your Sales Process with AI Sales Playbooks Contact Sales Login Contact Sales Products Solutions Resources Pricing Enterprise Never Use A Template Again: Meet AI Playbooks AI Sales Playbooks automate the process of researching leads for specific characteristics and writing hyper-personalized emails. They follow top-performing cold email strategies. Phone Get Started Before & After Sales Playbooks Playbooks take your email personalization to the next level without your team lifting a finger. Loading... How Playbooks Work Playbooks Automate Researching, Writing & Sending Hyper-Personalized Cold Emails 1 Advanced Lead Research Ava uses web scraping and our data partners to research each lead for data like achievements, personal interests, recent social posts and job changes. She looks for different information depending on the playbook. 2 Bespoke Email Crafting Our proprietary LLM pipeline combines industry-leading models from Google, OpenAI and Anthropic with in-house fine tuned models to create human-like emails. 3 Coaching You can coach each Playbook for each campaign to adjust the tone of voice, writing style and content to align more closely with your brand and strategy. Custom Playbooks Automate Any Manual Outbound Strategy With Custom Playbooks We can work with you to automate any research and email writing workflows your sales team are currently manually doing. Replicate Your Top Performers With custom Playbooks, we can take your best reps’ strategies, automate them, and make them available to the entire sales team. Save Time & Money Custom Playbooks free up hours of time your team would otherwise spend tediously researching leads & writing emails, so they can focus on high-leverage activities. Your Best Strategies Start Self-Improving Custom Playbooks have built-in self-optimization capabilities which use reinforcement learning to adapt writing styles, optimizing for positive responses. All Included In One Subscription Access all of these features and so many more with Artisan Sales. B2B Data AI Sales Playbooks 3rd Party Data Enrichment End-to-End Demand Generation Hyper-Personalized Email Writing Intent Data Deliverability Management Data Analysis B2B Data AI Sales Playbooks 3rd Party Data Enrichment End-to-End Demand Generation Hyper-Personalized Email Writing Intent Data Deliverability Management Data Analysis B2B Data AI Sales Playbooks 3rd Party Data Enrichment End-to-End Demand Generation Hyper-Personalized Email Writing Intent Data Deliverability Management Data Analysis B2B Data AI Sales Playbooks 3rd Party Data Enrichment End-to-End Demand Generation Hyper-Personalized Email Writing Intent Data Deliverability Management Data Analysis Bounce Testing Lead Discovery Lead Research Outbound CRM Deliverability Optimization Email Warmup Timezone Tracking Translation Web Scraping Bounce Testing Lead Discovery Lead Research Outbound CRM Deliverability Optimization Email Warmup Timezone Tracking Translation Web Scraping Bounce Testing Lead Discovery Lead Research Outbound CRM Deliverability Optimization Email Warmup Timezone Tracking Translation Web Scraping Bounce Testing Lead Discovery Lead Research Outbound CRM Deliverability Optimization Email Warmup Timezone Tracking Translation Web Scraping Ready to Supercharge Your Outbound? Our AI-first platform equips your team with best-in-class outbound tools and our AI BDR Ava, who automates your entire outbound workflow. Phone Get Started Products Artisan Sales Overview Ava, the AI Sales Agent B2B Data Sales Playbooks Email Warmup Sales Automation Resources Blog Demos Support Case Studies Changelog Soon Solutions Enterprise Midmarket Startups Lead Gen Agencies Soon Company About Us Contact Us Careers Artisan Labs Soon © 2024 Artisan AI Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service Privacy Policy $ /$

html Take Your Outbound to the Next Level With Our Sales AI Platform Contact Sales Login Contact Sales Products Solutions Resources Pricing Enterprise The Ultimate Outbound Sales AI Platform Every tool you need for outbound sales, and an AI BDR to manage it all. Our platform leverages the latest in AI technology to automate and optimize the manual tasks of outbound sales, to free your team to do more high-leverage activities. B2B Data Lead Enrichment Lead Research Email Playbooks Email Deliverabilty Ava, the AI BDR Core Features Features For Every Stage of Outbound Consolidate and automate your outbound sales stack with our AI-first platform. Over 300M B2B Data Contacts By aggregating 10s of different data sources, we equip Ava and your team with the most comprehensive B2B data on the market. Through our data partners and proprietary web scraping infrastructure, we collect demographic, firmographic, technographic, online activity and intent data. Email Warmup Our system sends emails to bots that respond positively, helping you build a strong sender reputation. This ensures your cold outbound emails reach their targets effectively. Sales AI Playbooks Say goodbye to email templates. Deploy proven outbound strategies with our AI-driven Playbooks, which replicate top-performing research and email-writing workflows. Outbound Automation Ava automates 80% of your outbound demand generation workflow, so your team can focus on cultivating meaningful customer relationships. She covers everything from finding leads to managing your outbound strategy. How It Works Artisan Simplifies, Automates & Consolidates Your Outbound Workflow 1 Set Up Your Campaigns Launch and manage multiple outbound campaigns, each with their own audience, pitch & messaging. 2 Ava Finds Leads Daily Ava leverages our B2B database of over 300 million contacts to identify leads matching your ICP. Simply specify your criteria, and Ava handles the rest. 3 Automatic Prospect Research Ava researches prospects using web scraping and third-party data providers to enrich their profiles with data on their achievements, tech stack, and much more. 4 AI Playbooks Replicate Outbound Strategies Ava can replicate the research and writing workflows your team does manually. Ava has predefined winning playbooks available, or we can work with you to automate your existing strategies. 5 Review Emails, or Have Ava Send Them Each day, Ava will ghostwrite emails to prospects. They will then be presented to your team to review - or with autopilot on, they'll be automatically sent. 6 Track and Optimize with Advanced Analytics Get detailed insights and performance metrics to make data-driven decisions and optimize your sales strategy. Hey there 👋 I’m Ava Meet Our First Artisan, Ava, the AI Sales Agent Ava automates 80% of a BDR’s workflow. More than just an AI assistant, she autonomously streamlines your entire sales process. She finds you high-quality prospects, does advanced research on them, and drafts hyper-personalized emails to boost your conversion rates. Enterprise Artisan For Enterprise We're building the next generation of outbound software: all-in-one and AI-first. The days of a 15-product stack centered around Outreach or SalesLoft are over. Talk to Sales Consolidate Your Fragmented Stack We consolidate every tool your team needs for outbound with best-in-class products - from B2B Data to Email Warmup. Free Reps to Focus on High-Leverage Work Ava automates over 80% of your BDRs' outbound workflow, and does it more effectively. This frees up your reps so they focus on high-leverage activities like calling prospects and closing deals. Automate Your Best Manual Strategies We can build custom Playbooks that replicate the research & email writing workflows of your top performers, automate them with Ava, and make them available to the entire team. Plays Well With Others Easily integrates with the tools you already use. Replaces Them Entirely Consolidate 10s of tools with one Artisan subscription. Ready to Supercharge Your Outbound? Our AI-first platform equips your team with best-in-class outbound tools and our AI BDR Ava, who automates your entire outbound workflow. Phone Get Started Products Artisan Sales Overview Ava, the AI Sales Agent B2B Data Sales Playbooks Email Warmup Sales Automation Resources Blog Demos Support Case Studies Changelog Soon Solutions Enterprise Midmarket Startups Lead Gen Agencies Soon Company About Us Contact Us Careers Artisan Labs Soon © 2024 Artisan AI Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service Privacy Policy $ /$

html AI BDR & Outbound Automation Platform, Built for Enterprise Contact Sales Login Contact Sales Products Solutions Resources Pricing Enterprise A Customizable AI Outbound Platform, Built for Enterprise Artisan Sales is designed with enterprise in mind. We push the boundaries of what’s possible with software, automating and optimizing how outbound is done - the days of Outreach, Salesloft & Clay are over. Phone Get Started Features Why Enterprise Should Switch to Artisan Save on Software License Fees Save millions of dollars every year with our consolidated platform. We offer every tool you need, under one simple subscription. Stop Reps Context Switching Our platform consolidates every tool you need – from lead discovery to deliverability optimization – allowing reps to focus on closing deals without interruption. Save on Headcount Maximize your resources and reduce the need for additional hires. By automating routine tasks and optimizing workflows, your existing team can handle higher volumes of outbound more efficiently. Replicate Top-Performing Reps Turn your best reps’ winning strategies into automated AI Playbooks. Your team will be able to execute these proven methods and watch your sales processes continuously self-optimize for maximum efficiency. Standardize Messaging Across Your Team Ensure your outreach is unified and consistent with our AI Playbooks and tone of voice tools, amplifying your team’s ability to win over prospects. Reps Can Focus on High-Leverage Activities Our platform automates all manual research and writing tasks your reps currently handle, freeing up their time to focus on higher value activities like building customer relationships and taking calls. B2B Data Coverage in Over 200 Countries Ava has data coverage globally, to complement her ability to research and write emails in over 40 languages. English Spanish +40 Talk to Sales Pilot, Compare & Switch Seamlessly Transitioning onto Artisan is effortless. We will work closely with you to integrate Artisan into your existing sales stack & workflows, replacing & automating inferior tools. Phase 1: Pilot 1 Discovery Call Initial call with your sales leadership to understand your existing outbound workflow and objectives. 2 Proposal 3 Implementation Strategy Call 4 Kick Off Pilot With Sample of Your Outbound Org 5 Weekly Sync With Account Manager Phase 2: Full Rollout 1 Transition Strategy Meeting We'll reflect on pilot outcomes and scope out full org requirements, before expanding Artisan across your entire sales team. 2 Integration With Your Full Software Stack 3 Development of All Required Custom Features 4 Platform Training for Your Sales Team 5 Hands-On Technical Support 6 Ongoing Support From Your Account Manager Talk To Sales Safety & Security Privacy & Security Are In Our DNA For us, safety is just as important as innovation. We take rigorous measures to exceed security and compliance expectations. Learn More Here Certifications We’re in the process of obtaining the following industry-standard certifications: Data Protection We ensure email content protection you can opt out of using your data to train our models. Your leads & CRM data is securely protected and never shared with other users. Internal Policies We prioritize stringent data access protection, offer prompt deletion upon request, and employ robust cybersecurity measures to safeguard your information against unauthorized access and potential threats. Ready to Supercharge Your Outbound? Our AI-first platform equips your team with best-in-class outbound tools and our AI BDR Ava, who automates your entire outbound workflow. Phone Get Started Products Artisan Sales Overview Ava, the AI Sales Agent B2B Data Sales Playbooks Email Warmup Sales Automation Resources Blog Demos Support Case Studies Changelog Soon Solutions Enterprise Midmarket Startups Lead Gen Agencies Soon Company About Us Contact Us Careers Artisan Labs Soon © 2024 Artisan AI Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service Privacy Policy $ /$

html Automate Your Outbound with Our AI-Powered, All-In-One Platform Contact Sales Login Contact Sales Products Solutions Resources Pricing Enterprise Consolidate Your Outbound Sales Stack Into Our AI-First Platform Put an end to context switching and save on multiple software license fees. We offer the best tools for every stage of outbound, from lead discovery and enrichment to deliverability optimization, with an AI Sales Agent to manage it all. Phone Get Started Boost The Productivity of Your Sales Reps Without Increasing Headcount Ava, our AI BDR, is there to support your sales team by automating the entire lead discovery, research, email strategy and writing process, so they can focus on high leverage activities like calling prospects and building personal networks. Talk To Sales Features Grow Your Sales Team Seamlessly With Software That’s Built to Scale Whether you’re entering new markets, expanding your sales force, or optimizing your outreach tactics, our platform provides the flexibility and volume needed to support your growth. Billions of B2B Data Points Across 200+ Countries Easily expand into global markets and make your outbound motion more targeted and intent-driven without ballooning your stack of sales enablement tools. Scale Your Success With AI Playbooks Replicate your top-performing outbound strategies across your entire team with our AI-engineered Playbooks. Deliverability Optimization For Any Email Volume Scale your outbound efforts without risking your domain reputation with our armory of built-in deliverability protection products and secondary domain management service. Organize Your Outbound Strategy Across Your Team Have your entire team manage and automate their outbound efforts from within the Artisan platform, and assign reps different accounts and territories as required. We Can Take Care of Your Entire Lead Gen Process For You Whether you're looking to enhance your existing outbound or outsource completely, we've got you covered. Per-Seat Management 1 Get Onboarded On Team Accounts Each BDR gets an Artisan account where they are trained on how to set up, monitor, and optimize their outreach campaigns. 2 Daily Review of Ava’s Work 3 Response Handling and Meeting Booking 4 Outbound Strategy Refinement Agency Level Management 1 Full Account, ICP and Campaign Set Up We set up your ICP and campaigns for you and manage everything on the platform. 2 Ongoing Campaign Setup, Testing & Optimization 3 Human Response Management and Scheduling 4 Qualified Sales Meetings In Your Diary Talk To Sales Meet Ava Increase Opportunity Volume With Your Sales AI Sidekick, Ava Ava takes care of finding & engaging leads, so your team can focus on building a network, handling objections and closing deals. Choosing the Right Domain For Email Outreach Deciding whether to use your main domain or a secondary domain for cold email outreach is crucial for maintaining your brand's reputation and deliverability rates. Main Domain 1 Enhances Brand Recognition People who are familiar with your domain will be more receptive to cold emails sent from it. 2 Builds Trust With Recipients 3 Drives Traffic Directly To Your Website Secondary Domain 1 Protect Primary Domain Reputation A secondary domain shields your main domain from potential spam complaints. 2 Minimize Risk of Blacklisting 3 Test and Optimize Campaigns Worry-Free 4 Keep Your Work Email Clutter-Free For large-scale cold email outreach, we recommend using a well-configured secondary domain alongside your main domain. Talk To Sales Save Time & Money Why You Should Go With Artisan Sales Consolidate your sales enablement stack, achieve a lower cost per meeting booked, and scale seamlessly with Artisan Sales. Talk to Sales Save On Headcount With Artisan Sales, 80% of your outbound team’s tasks are automated, so you can reach more people without growing your team. An AI BDR That Self-Optimizes Ava isn't your average AI sales assistant. Not only does she automate tasks, she also learns from your feedback over time, just like a real human would. Get Up and Running Within A Week Learning to use Artisan Sales takes minutes - and with our dedicated support team's help, you'll be onboarded and live within days! Replicate Your Top Performers Using our AI Playbooks, we can work with you to automate your top-performing outbound research & writing workflows. All-In-One Subscription From email deliverability to B2B data, we've got it all. We've built best-in-class products for the entire outbound cycle, all in one place. Intent-Driven Outbound Harness the power of behavioral, firmographic, technographic, search term, social media keyword, review site and competitor user intent data. Ready to Supercharge Your Outbound? Our AI-first platform equips your team with best-in-class outbound tools and our AI BDR Ava, who automates your entire outbound workflow. Phone Get Started Products Artisan Sales Overview Ava, the AI Sales Agent B2B Data Sales Playbooks Email Warmup Sales Automation Resources Blog Demos Support Case Studies Changelog Soon Solutions Enterprise Midmarket Startups Lead Gen Agencies Soon Company About Us Contact Us Careers Artisan Labs Soon © 2024 Artisan AI Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service Privacy Policy $ /$

html The All-In-One AI BDR & Outbound Platform for Startups Contact Sales Login Contact Sales Products Solutions Resources Pricing Enterprise Your Outbound Done For You – Quick, Affordable & Easy You can get fully set up on our platform in just three days and we offer on-hand support to ensure you’ll get maximum value out of outbound. Phone Get Started Features Don’t Have Product Market Fit Yet? Use Our Platform To Find Your ICP Over 300M B2B Data Contacts Across 200+ Countries Finding the right people to reach out to as a startup can be daunting. Once you've defined your ICP, Ava will automatically prospect, research and enrich leads for you. Set Campaigns To A/B Test Your ICP and Messaging Our platform provides a robust testing ground to hone in on your ICP and messaging. Set up multiple campaigns to A/B test different strategies and analyze the results to fine-tune your approach. Become An Instant Outbound Expert With Our AI Playbooks Save yourself the stress of countless hours on Google. Replicate and automate top-performing outbound strategies without any expertise or industry knowledge with our AI playbooks. Free Up Time Spent on Manual Tasks Concentrate on growth and customer relationships without getting bogged down by the repetitive tasks of outbound sales. Ava automates 80% of the lead gen process, from finding leads and researching them to writing emails and following up. B2B Data Coverage in Over 200 Countries Ava has data coverage globally, to complement her ability to research and write emails in over 40 languages. English Spanish +40 Talk to Sales We Can Take Care of Your Entire Lead Gen Process For You Whether you're looking to enhance your existing outbound or outsource completely, we've got you covered. Do It Yourself 1 Get Set Up Within A Week Breeze through a quick onboarding session with Ava, where she guides you through how to set up your account and first campaign. 2 Create and Launch Campaigns 3 Daily Review of Ava's Work 4 Response Handling and Meeting Booking 5 Outbound Strategy Refinement Agency Level Management 1 Full Account, ICP & Campaign Set Up We set up your campaigns for you and manage everything on the platform. 2 ICP Discovery 3 Ongoing Campaign Set up, Testing & Monitoring 4 Human Response Management and Scheduling 5 Qualified Sales Meetings In Your Diary Talk To Sales Save Time & Money Why You Should Go With Artisan Sales Consolidate your sales enablement stack, achieve a lower cost per meeting booked, and scale seamlessly with Artisan Sales. Talk to Sales Save On Headcount With Artisan Sales, 80% of your outbound team’s tasks are automated, so you can reach more people without growing your team. An AI BDR That Self-Optimizes Ava isn't your average AI sales assistant. Not only does she automate tasks, she also learns from your feedback over time, just like a real human would. Get Up and Running Within A Week Learning to use Artisan Sales takes minutes - and with our dedicated support team's help, you'll be onboarded and live within days! Replicate Your Top Performers Using our AI Playbooks, we can work with you to automate your top-performing outbound research & writing workflows. All-In-One Subscription From email deliverability to B2B data, we've got it all. We've built best-in-class products for the entire outbound cycle, all in one place. Intent-Driven Outbound Harness the power of behavioral, firmographic, technographic, search term, social media keyword, review site and competitor user intent data. Ready to Supercharge Your Outbound? Our AI-first platform equips your team with best-in-class outbound tools and our AI BDR Ava, who automates your entire outbound workflow. Phone Get Started Products Artisan Sales Overview Ava, the AI Sales Agent B2B Data Sales Playbooks Email Warmup Sales Automation Resources Blog Demos Support Case Studies Changelog Soon Solutions Enterprise Midmarket Startups Lead Gen Agencies Soon Company About Us Contact Us Careers Artisan Labs Soon © 2024 Artisan AI Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service Privacy Policy $ /$

html Demo Page | Artisan Contact Sales Login Contact Sales Products Solutions Resources Pricing Enterprise See Artisan in Action! Want to know how it works? Watch our 5 -minute demo to get a full rundown of our platform features, from lead identification to personalized email writing. Phone Get Started 5 minute 20 minute Core Features Features For Every Stage of Outbound Consolidate and automate your outbound sales stack with our AI-first platform. Over 300M B2B Data Contacts By aggregating 10s of different data sources, we equip Ava and your team with the most comprehensive B2B data on the market. Through our data partners and proprietary web scraping infrastructure, we collect demographic, firmographic, technographic, online activity and intent data. Email Warmup Our system sends emails to bots that respond positively, helping you build a strong sender reputation. This ensures your cold outbound emails reach their targets effectively. Sales AI Playbooks Say goodbye to email templates. Deploy proven outbound strategies with our AI-driven Playbooks, which replicate top-performing research and email-writing workflows. Outbound Automation Ava automates 80% of your outbound demand generation workflow, so your team can focus on cultivating meaningful customer relationships. She covers everything from finding leads to managing your outbound strategy. Book A Sales Call Have specific questions about Artisan? Get in touch to speak to one of our representatives about our features and pricing plans. Talk To Sales Meet Ava Our AI BDR Ava Automates 80% of Your Outbound Workflow Ava takes care of finding & engaging leads, so your team can focus on building a network, handling objections and closing deals. Save Time & Money Why You Should Go With Artisan Sales Consolidate your sales enablement stack, achieve a lower cost per meeting booked, and scale seamlessly with Artisan Sales. Talk to Sales Save On Headcount With Artisan Sales, 80% of your outbound team’s tasks are automated, so you can reach more people without growing your team. An AI BDR That Self-Optimizes Ava isn't your average AI sales assistant. Not only does she automate tasks, she also learns from your feedback over time, just like a real human would. Get Up and Running Within A Week Learning to use Artisan Sales takes minutes - and with our dedicated support team's help, you'll be onboarded and live within days! Replicate Your Top Performers Using our AI Playbooks, we can work with you to automate your top-performing outbound research & writing workflows. All-In-One Subscription From email deliverability to B2B data, we've got it all. We've built best-in-class products for the entire outbound cycle, all in one place. Intent-Driven Outbound Harness the power of behavioral, firmographic, technographic, search term, social media keyword, review site and competitor user intent data. The Answers To Your Questions Contact Sales Where does Ava find leads? We work with a number of industry-leading data providers to give Ava access to the most accurate and valuable B2B data through advanced AI-powered automation. You don’t need to have your own data source - everything is built into our AI sales platform, enhancing the efficiency of your sales teams. Who does Ava send emails as? Ava impersonates you, sending emails using your email address. Leveraging generative AI, she incorporates on-brand messaging to sound like you and your salespeople, ensuring your sales teams can maintain consistency and optimize communications. Can Ava respond to emails too? This functionality is currently in beta and will roll out more widely soon! Right now, you can ask Ava to draft responses for you within the Inbox. She also leverages AI-powered automation to follow-up with leads, helping streamline your sales activities. Can Ava do outreach on LinkedIn? This feature is currently being built! Soon, Ava will help capture more of the sales cycle by automating outreach on LinkedIn and other social media platforms. This will include sending connection requests, messages, and more to boost your conversion rate and streamline your sales activities. Can Ava make phone calls? We’re currently building our Dialer so your salespeople can do cold calling and outreach through our platform! Ava will be able to listen in, take notes in real-time, and streamline your workflow with automated follow-up phone calls during your sales calls. What’s the pricing to hire Ava? Our pricing is variable based on the lead volume and customization you need. Ava leverages the power of AI to enhance lead generation, improve conversion rates, and help close deals efficiently. For a pricing consultation and to learn how Ava can contribute to your sales enablement, please reach out to our sales team. Ready to Supercharge Your Outbound? Our AI-first platform equips your team with best-in-class outbound tools and our AI BDR Ava, who automates your entire outbound workflow. Phone Get Started Products Artisan Sales Overview Ava, the AI Sales Agent B2B Data Sales Playbooks Email Warmup Sales Automation Resources Blog Demos Support Case Studies Changelog Soon Solutions Enterprise Midmarket Startups Lead Gen Agencies Soon Company About Us Contact Us Careers Artisan Labs Soon © 2024 Artisan AI Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Service Privacy Policy $ /$